{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf470
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f1\ftech\fcharset77 Symbol;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
BOOKS BY ERNEST HEMINGWAY The Complete Short Stories The Garden of Eden Dateline: Toronto The Dangerous Summer Selected Letters The Enduring Hemingway The Nick Adams Stories Islands in the Stream The Fifth Column and Four Stories of the Spanish Civil War By-Line: Ernest Hemingway A Moveable Feast Three Novels The Snows of Kilimanjaro and Other Stories The Hemingway Reader The Old Man and the Sea Across the River and into the Trees For Whom the Bell Tolls The Short Stories of Ernest Hemingway To Have and Have Not Green Hills of Africa Winner Take Nothing Death in the Afternoon In Our Time A Farewell to Arms Men Without Women The Sun Also Rises The Torrents of Spring The Complete Short Stories of Ernest Hemingway SCRIBNER 1230 Avenue of the Americas New York, NY 10020 This book is a work of fiction. Names, characters, places, and incidents either are products of the author\'92s imagination or are used fictitiously. Any resemblance to actual events or locales or persons, living or dead, is entirely coincidental. Copyright \'a9 1987 by Simon & Schuster Inc. All rights reserved, including the right of reproduction in whole or in part in any form. SCRIBNER and design are trademarks of Macmillan Library Reference USA, Inc., used under license by Simon & Schuster, the publisher of this work. Library of Congress Gilahging-in-Publication Data Hemingway Ernest, 1899-1961. [Short stories] The complete short stories of Ernest Hemingway / Ernest Hemingway.\'97Finca Vig\'eda ed. p. cm. I. Title. PS3515E37A15 1991 813
\f1 \uc0\u8242 
\f0 .52\'97dc20 90-26241 CIP ISBN-13: 978-1-4165-8729-3 ISBN-10: 1-4165-8729-2 Visit us on the World Wide Web: http://www.SimonSays.com Contents Foreword Publisher\'92s Preface PART I \'93The First Forty-nine\'94 Preface to \'93The First Forty-nine\'94 The Short Happy Life of Francis Macomber The Capital of the World The Snows of Kilimanjaro Old Man at the Bridge Up in Michigan On the Quai at Smyrna Indian Camp The Doctor and the Doctor\'92s Wife The End of Something The Three-Day Blow The Battler A Very Short Story Soldier\'92s Home The Revolutionist Mr. and Mrs. Elliot Cat in the Rain Out of Season Cross-Country Snow My Old Man Big Two-Hearted River: Part I Big Two-Hearted River: Part II The Undefeated In Another Country Hills Like White Elephants The Killers Che Ti Dice La Patria? Fifty Grand A Simple Enquiry Ten Indians A Canary for One An Alpine Idyll A Pursuit Race Today Is Friday Banal Story Now I Lay Me After the Storm A Clean, Well-Lighted Place The Light of the World God Rest You Merry, Gentlemen The Sea Change A Way You\'92ll Never Be The Mother of a Queen One Reader Writes Homage to Switzerland A Day\'92s Wait A Natural History of the Dead Wine of Wyoming The Gambler, the Nun, and the Radio Fathers and Sons PART II Short Stories Published in Books or Magazines Subsequent to \'93The First Forty-nine\'94 One Trip Across The Tradesman\'92s Return The Denunciation The Butterfly and the Tank Night Before Battle Under the Ridge Nobody Ever Dies The Good Lion The Faithful Bull Get a Seeing-Eyed Dog A Man of the World Summer People The Last Good Country An African Story PART III Previously Unpublished Fiction A Train Trip The Porter Black Ass at the Cross Roads Landscape with Figures I Guess Everything Reminds You of Something Great News from the Mainland The Strange Country Foreword WHEN PAPA AND MARTY FIRST RENTED in 1940 the Finca Vig\'eda which was to be his home for the next twenty-two years until his death, there was still a real country on the south side. This country no longer exists. It was not done in by middle-class real estate developers like Chekhov\'92s cherry orchard, which might have been its fate in Puerto Rico or Cuba without the Castro revolution, but by the startling growth of the population of poor people and their shack housing which is such a feature of all the Greater Antilles, no matter what their political persuasion. As children in the very early morning lying awake in bed in our own little house that Marty had fixed up for us, we used to listen for the whistling call of the bobwhites in that country to the south. It was a country covered in manigua thicket and in the tall flamboyante trees that grew along the watercourse that ran through it, wild guinea fowl used to come and roost in the evening. They would be calling to each other, keeping in touch with each other in the thicket, as they walked and scratched and with little bursts of running moved back toward their roosting trees at the end of their day\'92s foraging in the thicket. Manigua thicket is a scrub acacia thornbush from Africa, the first seeds of which the Creoles say came to the island between the toes of the black slaves. The guinea fowl were from Africa too. They never really became as tame as the other barnyard fowl the Spanish settlers brought with them and some escaped and throve in the monsoon tropical climate, just as Papa told us some of the black slaves had escaped from the shipwreck of slave ships on the coast of South America, enough of them together with their culture and language intact so that they were able to live together in the wilderness down to the present day just as they had lived in Africa. Vig\'eda in Spanish means a lookout or a prospect. The farmhouse is built on a hill that commands an unobstructed view of Havana and the coastal plain to the north. There is nothing African or even continental about this view to the north. It is a Creole island view of the sort made familiar by the tropical watercolors of Winslow Homer, with royal palms, blue sky, and the small, white cumulus clouds that continuously change in shape and size at the top of the shallow northeast trade wind, the brisa. In the late summer, when the doldrums, following the sun, move north, there are often, as the heat builds in the afternoons, spectacular thunderstorms that relieve for a while the humid heat, chubascos that form inland to the south and move northward out to the sea. In some summers, a hurricane or two would cut swaths through the shack houses of the poor on the island. Hurricane victims, damnificados del cicl\'f3n, would then add a new tension to local politics, already taut enough under the strain of insufficient municipal water supplies, perceived outrages to national honor like the luridly reported urination on the monument to Jos\'e9 Marti by drunken American servicemen and, always, the price of sugar. Lightning must still strike the house many times each summer, and when we were children there no one would use the telephone during a thunderstorm after the time Papa was hurled to the floor in the middle of a call, himself and the whole room glowing in the blue light of Saint Elmo\'92s fire. During the early years at the finca, Papa did not appear to write any fiction at all. He wrote many letters, of course, and in one of them he says that it is his turn to rest. Let the world get on with the mess it had gotten itself into. Marty was the one who seemed to write and to have kept her taste for the high excitement of their life together in Madrid during the last period of the Spanish Civil War. Papa and she played a lot of tennis with each other on the clay court down by the swimming pool and there were often tennis parties with their friends among the Basque professional jai alai players from the fronton in Havana. One of these was what the young girls today would call a hunk, and Marty flirted with him a little and Papa spoke of his rival, whom he would now and again beat at tennis by the lowest form of cunning expressed in spins and chops and lobs against the towering but uncontrolled honest strength of the rival. It was all great fun for us, the deep-sea fishing on the Pilar that Gregorio Fuentes, the mate, kept always ready for use in the little fishing harbor of Cojimar, the live pigeon shooting at the Club de Cazadores del Cerro, the trips into Havana for drinks at the Floridita and to buy The Illustrated London News with its detailed drawings of the war so far away in Europe. Papa, who was always very good at that sort of thing, suggested a quotation from Turgenev to Marty: \'93The heart of another is a dark forest,\'94 and she used part of it for the title of a work of fiction she had just completed at the time. Although the Finca Vig\'eda collection contains all the stories that appeared in the first comprehensive collection of Papa\'92s short stories published in 1938, those stories are now well known. Much of this collection\'92s interest to the reader will no doubt be in the stories that were written or only came to light after he came to live at the Finca Vig\'eda. \'97JOHN, PATRICK, AND GREGORY HEMINGWAY 1987 Publisher\'92s Preface THERE HAS LONG BEEN A NEED FOR A complete and up-to-date edition of the short stories of Ernest Hemingway. Until now the only such volume was the omnibus collection of the first forty-nine stories published in 1938 together with Hemingway\'92s play The Fifth Column. That was a fertile period of Hemingway\'92s writing and a number of stories based on his experiences in Cuba and Spain were appearing in magazines, but too late to have been included in \'93The First Forty-nine.\'94 In 1939 Hemingway was already considering a new collection of stories that would take its place beside the earlier books In Our Time, Men Without Women , and Winner Take Nothing . On February 7 he wrote from his home in Key West to his editor Maxwell Perkins at Scribners suggesting such a book. At that time he had already completed five stories: \'93The Denunciation,\'94 \'93The Butterfly and the Tank,\'94 \'93Night Before Battle,\'94 \'93Nobody Ever Dies,\'94 and \'93Landscape with Figures,\'94 which is published here for the first time. A sixth story, \'93Under the Ridge,\'94 would appear shortly in the March 1939 edition of Cosmopolitan. As it turned out, Hemingway\'92s plans for that new book did not pan out. He had committed himself to writing three \'93very long\'94 stories to round out the collection (two dealing with battles in the Spanish Civil War and one about the Cuban fisherman who fought a swordfish for four days and four nights only to lose it to sharks). But once Hemingway got underway on his novel\'97later published as For Whom the Bell Tolls\'97all other writing projects were laid aside. We can only speculate on the two war stories he abandoned, but it is probable that much of what they might have included found its way into the novel. As for the story of the Cuban fisherman, he did eventually return to it thirteen years later when he developed and transformed it into his famous novella, The Old Man and the Sea. Many of Hemingway\'92s early stories are set in northern Michigan, where his family owned a cottage on Waloon Lake and where he spent his summers as a boy and youth. The group of friends he made there, including the Indians who lived nearby, are doubtless represented in various stories, and some of the episodes are probably based at least partly on fact. Hemingway\'92s aim was to convey vividly and exactly moments of exquisite importance and poignancy, experiences that might appropriately be described as \'93epiphanies.\'94 The posthumously published \'93Summer People\'94 and the fragment called \'93The Last Good Country\'94 stem from this period. Later stories, also set in America, relate to Hemingway\'92s experiences as a husband and father, and even as a hospital patient. The cast of characters and the variety of themes became as diversified as the author\'92s own life. One special source of material was his life in Key West, where he lived in the twenties and thirties. His encounters with the sea on his fishing boat Pilar, taken together with his circle of friends, were the inspiration of some of his best writing. The two Harry Morgan stories, \'93One Trip Across\'94 (Cosmopolitan, May 1934) and \'93The Tradesman\'92s Return\'94 (Esquire, February 1936), which draw from this period, were ultimately incorporated into the novel To Have and Have Not, but it is appropriate and enjoyable to read them as separate stories, as they first appeared. Hemingway must have been one of the most perceptive travelers in the history of literature, and his stories taken as a whole present a world of experience. In 1918 he signed up for ambulance duty in Italy as a member of an American Field Service unit. It was his first transatlantic journey and he was eighteen at the time. On the day of his arrival in Milan a munitions factory blew up, and with the other volunteers in his contingent Hemingway was assigned to gather up the remains of the dead. Only three months later he was badly wounded in both legs and hospitalized in the American Red Cross hospital in Milan, with subsequent outpatient treatment. These wartime experiences, including the people he met, provided many details for his novel of World War I, A Farewell to Arms. They also inspired five short story masterpieces. In the 1920s he revisited Italy several times; sometimes as a professional journalist and sometimes for pleasure. His short story about a motor trip with a friend through Mussolini\'92s Italy, \'93Che Ti Dice La Patria?,\'94 succeeds in conveying the harsh atmosphere of a totalitarian regime. Between 1922 and 1924 Hemingway made several trips to Switzerland to gather material for The Toronto Star. His subjects included economic conditions and other practical subjects, but also accounts of Swiss winter sports: bobsledding, skiing, and the hazardous luge. As in other fields. Hemingway was ahead of his compatriots in discovering places and pleasures that would become tourist attractions. At the same time, he was storing up ideas for a number of his short stories, with themes ranging from the comic to the serious and the macabre. Hemingway attended his first bullfight, in the company of American friends, in 1923, when he made an excursion to Madrid from Paris, where he was living at the time. From the moment the first bull burst into the ring he was overwhelmed by the experience and left the scene a lifelong fan. For him the spectacle of a man pitted against a wild bull was a tragedy rather than a sport. He was fascinated by its techniques and conventions, the skill and courage required by the toreros, and the sheer violence of the bulls. He soon became an acknowledged expert on bullfighting and wrote a famous treatise on the subject. Death in the Afternoon. A number of his stories also have bullfighting themes. In time, Hemingway came to love all of Spain\'97its customs, its landscapes, its art treasures, and its people. When the Spanish Civil War broke out in the last week of July 1936, he was a staunch supporter of the Loyalists, helping to provide support for their cause and covering the war from Madrid as a correspondent for the North American Newspaper Alliance. Out of the entirety of his experiences in Spain during the war he produced seven short stories in addition to his novel, For Whom the Bell Tolls, and his play. The Fifth Column. It was one of the most prolific and inspired periods of his writing career. In 1933, when his wife Pauline\'92s wealthy uncle Gus Pfeiffer offered to stake the Hemingways to an African safari, Ernest was totally captivated by the prospect and made endless preparations, including inviting a company of friends to join them and selecting suitable weapons and other equipment for the trip. The safari itself lasted about ten weeks, but everything he saw seems to have made an indelible impression on his mind. Perhaps he regained, as the result of his enthusiasm and interest, a childlike capacity to record details almost photographically. It was his first meeting with the famous white hunter Phillip Percival, whom he admired at once for his cool and sometimes cunning professionalism. At the end of the safari, Hemingway had filled his mind with images, incidents, and character studies of unique value for his writings. As the harvest of the trip he wrote the nonfiction novel Green Hills of Africa, and some of his finest stories. These include \'93The Short Happy Life of Francis Macomber\'94 and \'93The Snows of Kilimanjaro\'94 as well as \'93An African Story,\'94 which appeared as a story within a story in The Garden of Eden, a novel published posthumously in May 1986. In spite of the obvious importance of the Paris years on Hemingway\'92s development as a writer, few of his short stories have French settings. He was aware of that fact and in his preface to A Moveable Feast wistfully mentions subjects that he might have written about, some of which might have become short stories. During World War II Hemingway served as a war correspondent covering the Normandy invasions and the liberation of Paris. It seems that he also assembled a group of extramilitary scouts keeping pace with the retreating Germans. The balance between fiction and nonfiction in his stories of the period, including the previously unpublished \'93Black Ass at the Cross Roads,\'94 may never be determined. Toward the end of his life Hemingway wrote two fables for the child of a friend, \'93The Good Lion\'94 and \'93The Faithful Bull,\'94 which were published by Holiday in 1951 and are reprinted here. He also published two short stories in The Atlantic Monthly, \'93Get a Seeing-Eyed Dog,\'94 and \'93A Man of the World\'94 (both December 20, 1957). We have grouped seven previously unpublished works of fiction at the back of the book. Four of these represent completed short stories; the other three comprise extended scenes from unpublished, uncompleted novels. All in all, this Finca Vig\'eda edition contains twenty-one stories that were not included in \'93The First Forty-nine.\'94 The collection is named for Hemingway\'92s home in San Francisco de Paula, Cuba. He lived at Finca Vig\'eda (\'93Lookout Farm\'94) on and off during the last two decades of his life. The finca was dear to his heart and it seems appropriate now that it should contain a major portion of his life work, which was even more dear. \'97CHARLES SCRIBNER, JR. Part I \'93The First Forty-nine\'94 Preface to \'93The First Forty-nine\'94 THE FIRST FOUR STORIES ARE THE LAST ones I have written. The others follow in the order in which they were originally published. The first one I wrote was \'93Up in Michigan,\'94 written in Paris in 1921. The last was \'93Old Man at the Bridge,\'94 cabled from Barcelona in April of 1938. Beside The Fifth Column, I wrote \'93The Killers,\'94 \'93Today Is Friday,\'94 \'93Ten Indians,\'94 part of The Sun Also Rises and the first third of To Have and Have Not in Madrid. It was always a good place for working. So was Paris, and so were Key West, Florida, in the cool months; the ranch, near Cooke City, Montana; Kansas City; Chicago; Toronto, and Havana, Cuba. Some other places were not so good but maybe we were not so good when we were in them. There are many kinds of stories in this book. I hope that you will find some that you like. Reading them over, the ones I liked the best, outside of those that have achieved some notoriety so that school teachers include them in story collections that their pupils have to buy in story courses, and you are always faintly embarrassed to read them and wonder whether you really wrote them or did you maybe hear them somewhere, are \'93The Short Happy Life of Francis Macomber,\'94 \'93In Another Country,\'94 \'93Hills Like White Elephants,\'94 \'93A Way You\'92ll Never Be,\'94 \'93The Snows of Kilimanjaro,\'94 \'93A Clean, Well-Lighted Place,\'94 and a story called \'93The Light of the World\'94 which nobody else ever liked. There are some others too. Because if you did not like them you would not publish them. In going where you have to go, and doing what you have to do, and seeing what you have to see, you dull and blunt the instrument you write with. But I would rather have it bent and dull and know I had to put it on the grindstone again and hammer it into shape and put a whetstone to it, and know that I had something to write about, than to have it bright and shining and nothing to say, or smooth and well-oiled in the closet, but unused. Now it is necessary to get to the grindstone again. I would like to live long enough to write three more novels and twenty-five more stories. I know some pretty good ones. ERNEST HEMINGWAY 1938 The Short Happy Life of Francis Macomber IT WAS NOW LUNCH TIME AND THEY WERE all sitting under the double green fly of the dining tent pretending that nothing had happened. \'93Will you have lime juice or lemon squash?\'94 Macomber asked. \'93I\'92ll have a gimlet,\'94 Robert Wilson told him. \'93I\'92ll have a gimlet too. I need something,\'94 Macomber\'92s wife said. \'93I suppose it\'92s the thing to do,\'94 Macomber agreed. \'93Tell him to make three gimlets.\'94 The mess boy had started them already, lifting the bottles out of the canvas cooling bags that sweated wet in the wind that blew through the trees that shaded the tents. \'93What had I ought to give them?\'94 Macomber asked. \'93A quid would be plenty,\'94 Wilson told him. \'93You don\'92t want to spoil them.\'94 \'93Will the headman distribute it?\'94 \'93Absolutely.\'94 Francis Macomber had, half an hour before, been carried to his tent from the edge of the camp in triumph on the arms and shoulders of the cook, the personal boys, the skinner and the porters. The gun-bearers had taken no part in the demonstration. When the native boys put him down at the door of his tent, he had shaken all their hands, received their congratulations, and then gone into the tent and sat on the bed until his wife came in. She did not speak to him when she came in and he left the tent at once to wash his face and hands in the portable wash basin outside and go over to the dining tent to sit in a comfortable canvas chair in the breeze and the shade. \'93You\'92ve got your lion,\'94 Robert Wilson said to him, \'93and a damned fine one too.\'94 Mrs. Macomber looked at Wilson quickly. She was an extremely handsome and well-kept woman of the beauty and social position which had, five years before, commanded five thousand dollars as the price of endorsing, with photographs, a beauty product which she had never used. She had been married to Francis Macomber for eleven years. \'93He is a good lion, isn\'92t he?\'94 Macomber said. His wife looked at him now. She looked at both these men as though she had never seen them before. One, Wilson, the white hunter, she knew she had never truly seen before. He was about middle height with sandy hair, a stubby mustache, a very red face and extremely cold blue eyes with faint white wrinkles at the corners that grooved merrily when he smiled. He smiled at her now and she looked away from his face at the way his shoulders sloped in the loose tunic he wore with the four big cartridges held in loops where the left breast pocket should have been, at his big brown hands, his old slacks, his very dirty boots and back to his red face again. She noticed where the baked red of his face stopped in a white line that marked the circle left by his Stetson hat that hung now from one of the pegs of the tent pole. \'93Well, here\'92s to the lion,\'94 Robert Wilson said. He smiled at her again and, not smiling, she looked curiously at her husband. Francis Macomber was very tall, very well built if you did not mind that length of bone, dark, his hair cropped like an oarsman, rather thin-lipped, and was considered handsome. He was dressed in the same sort of safari clothes that Wilson wore except that his were new, he was thirty-five years old, kept himself very fit, was good at court games, had a number of big-game fishing records, and had just shown himself, very publicly, to be a coward. \'93Here\'92s to the lion,\'94 he said. \'93I can\'92t ever thank you for what you did.\'94 Margaret, his wife, looked away from him and back to Wilson. \'93Let\'92s not talk about the lion,\'94 she said. Wilson looked over at her without smiling and now she smiled at him. \'93It\'92s been a very strange day,\'94 she said. \'93Hadn\'92t you ought to put your hat on even under the canvas at noon? You told me that, you know.\'94 \'93Might put it on,\'94 said Wilson. \'93You know you have a very red face, Mr. Wilson,\'94 she told him and smiled again. \'93Drink,\'94 said Wilson. \'93I don\'92t think so,\'94 she said. \'93Francis drinks a great deal, but his face is never red.\'94 \'93It\'92s red today,\'94 Macomber tried a joke. \'93No,\'94 said Margaret. \'93It\'92s mine that\'92s red today. But Mr. Wilson\'92s is always red.\'94 \'93Must be racial,\'94 said Wilson. \'93I say, you wouldn\'92t like to drop my beauty as a topic, would you?\'94 \'93I\'92ve just started on it.\'94 \'93Let\'92s chuck it,\'94 said Wilson. \'93Conversation is going to be so difficult,\'94 Margaret said. \'93Don\'92t be silly, Margot,\'94 her husband said. \'93No difficulty,\'94 Wilson said. \'93Got a damn fine lion.\'94 Margot looked at them both and they both saw that she was going to cry. Wilson had seen it coming for a long time and he dreaded it. Macomber was past dreading it. \'93I wish it hadn\'92t happened. Oh, I wish it hadn\'92t happened,\'94 she said and started for her tent. She made no noise of crying but they could see that her shoulders were shaking under the rose-colored, sun-proofed shirt she wore. \'93Women upset,\'94 said Wilson to the tall man. \'93Amounts to nothing. Strain on the nerves and one thing\'92n another.\'94 \'93No,\'94 said Macomber. \'93I suppose that I rate that for the rest of my life now.\'94 \'93Nonsense. Let\'92s have a spot of the giant killer,\'94 said Wilson. \'93Forget the whole thing. Nothing to it anyway.\'94 \'93We might try,\'94 said Macomber. \'93I won\'92t forget what you did for me though.\'94 \'93Nothing,\'94 said Wilson. \'93All nonsense.\'94 So they sat there in the shade where the camp was pitched under some wide-topped acacia trees with a boulder-strewn cliff behind them, and a stretch of grass that ran to the bank of a boulder-filled stream in front with forest beyond it, and drank their just-cool lime drinks and avoided one another\'92s eyes while the boys set the table for lunch. Wilson could tell that the boys all knew about it now and when he saw Macomber\'92s personal boy looking curiously at his master while he was putting dishes on the table he snapped at him in Swahili. The boy turned away with his face blank. \'93What were you telling him?\'94 Macomber asked. \'93Nothing. Told him to look alive or I\'92d see he got about fifteen of the best.\'94 \'93What\'92s that? Lashes?\'94 \'93It\'92s quite illegal,\'94 Wilson said. \'93You\'92re supposed to fine them.\'94 \'93Do you still have them whipped?\'94 \'93Oh, yes. They could raise a row if they chose to complain. But they don\'92t. They prefer it to the fines.\'94 \'93How strange!\'94 said Macomber. \'93Not strange, really,\'94 Wilson said. \'93Which would you rather do? Take a good birching or lose your pay?\'94 Then he felt embarrassed at asking it and before Macomber could answer he went on, \'93We all take a beating every day, you know, one way or another.\'94 This was no better. \'93Good God,\'94 he thought. \'93I am a diplomat, aren\'92t I?\'94 \'93Yes, we take a beating,\'94 said Macomber, still not looking at him. \'93I\'92m awfully sorry about that lion business. It doesn\'92t have to go any further, does it? I mean no one will hear about it, will they?\'94 \'93You mean will I tell it at the Mathaiga Club?\'94 Wilson looked at him now coldly. He had not expected this. So he\'92s a bloody four-letter man as well as a bloody coward, he thought. I rather liked him too until today. But how is one to know about an American? \'93No,\'94 said Wilson. \'93I\'92m a professional hunter. We never talk about our clients. You can be quite easy on that. It\'92s supposed to be bad form to ask us not to talk though.\'94 He had decided now that to break would be much easier. He would eat, then, by himself and could read a book with his meals. They would eat by themselves. He would see them through the safari on a very formal basis\'97what was it the French called it? Distinguished consideration\'97and it would be a damn sight easier than having to go through this emotional trash. He\'92d insult him and make a good clean break. Then he could read a book with his meals and he\'92d still be drinking their whisky. That was the phrase for it when a safari went bad. You ran into another white hunter and you asked, \'93How is everything going?\'94 and he answered, \'93Oh, I\'92m still drinking their whisky,\'94 and you knew everything had gone to pot. \'93I\'92m sorry,\'94 Macomber said and looked at him with his American face that would stay adolescent until it became middle-aged, and Wilson noted his crew-cropped hair, fine eyes only faintly shifty, good nose, thin lips and handsome jaw. \'93I\'92m sorry I didn\'92t realize that. There are lots of things I don\'92t know.\'94 So what could he do, Wilson thought. He was all ready to break it off quickly and neatly and here the beggar was apologizing after he had just insulted him. He made one more attempt. \'93Don\'92t worry about me talking,\'94 he said. \'93I have a living to make You know in Africa no woman ever misses her lion and no white man ever bolts.\'94 \'93I bolted like a rabbit,\'94 Macomber said. Now what in hell were you going to do about a man who talked like that, Wilson wondered. Wilson looked at Macomber with his flat, blue, machine-gunner\'92s eyes and the other smiled back at him. He had a pleasant smile if you did not notice how his eyes showed when he was hurt. \'93Maybe I can fix it up on buffalo,\'94 he said. \'93We\'92re after them next, aren\'92t we?\'94 \'93In the morning if you like,\'94 Wilson told him. Perhaps he had been wrong. This was certainly the way to take it. You most certainly could not tell a damned thing about an American. He was all for Macomber again. If you could forget the morning. But, of course, you couldn\'92t. The morning had been about as bad as they come. \'93Here comes the Memsahib,\'94 he said. She was walking over from her tent looking refreshed and cheerful and quite lovely. She had a very perfect oval face, so perfect that you expected her to be stupid. But she wasn\'92t stupid, Wilson thought, no, not stupid. \'93How is the beautiful red-faced Mr. Wilson? Are you feeling better, Francis, my pearl?\'94 \'93Oh, much,\'94 said Macomber. \'93I\'92ve dropped the whole thing,\'94 she said, sitting down at the table. \'93What importance is there to whether Francis is any good at killing lions? That\'92s not his trade. That\'92s Mr. Wilson\'92s trade. Mr. Wilson is really very impressive killing anything. You do kill anything, don\'92t you?\'94 \'93Oh, anything,\'94 said Wilson. \'93Simply anything.\'94 They are, he thought, the hardest in the world; the hardest, the cruelest, the most predatory and the most attractive and their men have softened or gone to pieces nervously as they have hardened. Or is it that they pick men they can handle? They can\'92t know that much at the age they marry, he thought. He was grateful that he had gone through his education on American women before now because this was a very attractive one. \'93We\'92re going after buff in the morning,\'94 he told her. \'93I\'92m coming,\'94 she said. \'93No, you\'92re not.\'94 \'93Oh, yes, I am. Mayn\'92t I, Francis?\'94 \'93Why not stay in camp?\'94 \'93Not for anything,\'94 she said. \'93I wouldn\'92t miss something like today for anything.\'94 When she left, Wilson was thinking, when she went off to cry, she seemed a hell of a fine woman. She seemed to understand, to realize, to be hurt for him and for herself and to know how things really stood. She is away for twenty minutes and now she is back, simply enamelled in that American female cruelty. They are the damnedest women. Really the damnedest. \'93We\'92ll put on another show for you tomorrow,\'94 Francis Macomber said. \'93You\'92re not coming,\'94 Wilson said. \'93You\'92re very mistaken,\'94 she told him. \'93And I want so to see you perform again. You were lovely this morning. That is if blowing things\'92 heads off is lovely.\'94 \'93Here\'92s the lunch,\'94 said Wilson. \'93You\'92re very merry, aren\'92t you?\'94 \'93Why not? I didn\'92t come out here to be dull.\'94 \'93Well, it hasn\'92t been dull,\'94 Wilson said. He could see the boulders in the river and the high bank beyond with the trees and he remembered the morning. \'93Oh, no,\'94 she said. \'93It\'92s been charming. And tomorrow. You don\'92t know how I look forward to tomorrow.\'94 \'93That\'92s eland he\'92s offering you,\'94 Wilson said. \'93They\'92re the big cowy things that jump like hares, aren\'92t they?\'94 \'93I suppose that describes them,\'94 Wilson said. \'93It\'92s very good meat,\'94 Macomber said. \'93Did you shoot it, Francis?\'94 she asked. \'93Yes.\'94 \'93They\'92re not dangerous, are they?\'94 \'93Only if they fall on you,\'94 Wilson told her. \'93I\'92m so glad.\'94 \'93Why not let up on the bitchery just a little, Margot,\'94 Macomber said, cutting the eland steak and putting some mashed potato, gravy and carrot on the down-turned fork that tined through the piece of meat. \'93I suppose I could,\'94 she said, \'93since you put it so prettily.\'94 \'93Tonight we\'92ll have champagne for the lion,\'94 Wilson said. \'93It\'92s a bit too hot at noon.\'94 \'93Oh, the lion,\'94 Margot said. \'93I\'92d forgotten the lion!\'94 So, Robert Wilson thought to himself, she is giving him a ride, isn\'92t she? Or do you suppose that\'92s her idea of putting up a good show? How should a woman act when she discovers her husband is a bloody coward? She\'92s damn cruel but they\'92re all cruel. They govern, of course, and to govern one has to be cruel sometimes. Still, I\'92ve seen enough of their damn terrorism. \'93Have some more eland,\'94 he said to her politely. That afternoon, late, Wilson and Macomber went out in the motor car with the native driver and the two gun-bearers. Mrs. Macomber stayed in the camp. It was too hot to go out, she said, and she was going with them in the early morning. As they drove off Wilson saw her standing under the big tree, looking pretty rather than beautiful in her faintly rosy khaki, her dark hair drawn back off her forehead and gathered in a knot low on her neck, her face as fresh, he thought, as though she were in England. She waved to them as the car went off through the swale of high grass and curved around through the trees into the small hills of orchard bush. In the orchard bush they found a herd of impala, and leaving the car they stalked one old ram with long, wide-spread horns and Macomber killed it with a very creditable shot that knocked the buck down at a good two hundred yards and sent the herd off bounding wildly and leaping over one another\'92s backs in long, leg-drawn-up leaps as unbelievable and as floating as those one makes sometimes in dreams. \'93That was a good shot,\'94 Wilson said. \'93They\'92re a small target.\'94 \'93Is it a worth-while head?\'94 Macomber asked. \'93It\'92s excellent,\'94 Wilson told him. \'93You shoot like that and you\'92ll have no trouble.\'94 \'93Do you think we\'92ll find buffalo tomorrow?\'94 \'93There\'92s a good chance of it. They feed out early in the morning and with luck we may catch them in the open.\'94 \'93I\'92d like to clear away that lion business,\'94 Macomber said. \'93It\'92s not very pleasant to have your wife see you do something like that.\'94 I should think it would be even more unpleasant to do it, Wilson thought, wife or no wife, or to talk about it having done it. But he said, \'93I wouldn\'92t think about that any more. Any one could be upset by his first lion. That\'92s all over.\'94 But that night after dinner and a whisky and soda by the fire before going to bed, as Francis Macomber lay on his cot with the mosquito bar over him and listened to the night noises it was not all over. It was neither all over nor was it beginning. It was there exactly as it happened with some parts of it indelibly emphasized and he was miserably ashamed at it. But more than shame he felt cold, hollow fear in him. The fear was still there like a cold slimy hollow in all the emptiness where once his confidence had been and it made him feel sick. It was still there with him now. It had started the night before when he had wakened and heard the lion roaring somewhere up along the river. It was a deep sound and at the end there were sort of coughing grunts that made him seem just outside the tent, and when Francis Macomber woke in the night to hear it he was afraid. He could hear his wife breathing quietly, asleep. There was no one to tell he was afraid, nor to be afraid with him, and, lying alone, he did not know the Somali proverb that says a brave man is always frightened three times by a lion; when he first sees his track, when he first hears him roar and when he first confronts him. Then while they were eating breakfast by lantern light out in the dining tent, before the sun was up, the lion roared again and Francis thought he was just at the edge of camp. \'93Sounds like an old-timer,\'94 Robert Wilson said, looking up from his kippers and coffee. \'93Listen to him cough.\'94 \'93Is he very close?\'94 \'93A mile or so up the stream.\'94 \'93Will we see him?\'94 \'93We\'92ll have a look.\'94 \'93Does his roaring carry that far? It sounds as though he were right in camp.\'94 \'93Carries a hell of a long way,\'94 said Robert Wilson. \'93It\'92s strange the way it carries. Hope he\'92s a shootable cat. The boys said there was a very big one about here.\'94 \'93If I get a shot, where should I hit him,\'94 Macomber asked, \'93to stop him?\'94 \'93In the shoulders,\'94 Wilson said. \'93In the neck if you can make it. Shoot for bone. Break him down.\'94 \'93I hope I can place it properly,\'94 Macomber said. \'93You shoot very well,\'94 Wilson told him. \'93Take your time. Make sure of him. The first one in is the one that counts.\'94 \'93What range will it be?\'94 \'93Can\'92t tell. Lion has something to say about that. Don\'92t shoot unless it\'92s close enough so you can make sure.\'94 \'93At under a hundred yards?\'94 Macomber asked. Wilson looked at him quickly. \'93Hundred\'92s about right. Might have to take him a bit under. Shouldn\'92t chance a shot at much over that. A hundred\'92s a decent range. You can hit him wherever you want at that. Here comes the Memsahib.\'94 \'93Good morning,\'94 she said. \'93Are we going after that lion?\'94 \'93As soon as you deal with your breakfast,\'94 Wilson said. \'93How are you feeling?\'94 \'93Marvellous,\'94 she said. \'93I\'92m very excited.\'94 \'93I\'92ll just go and see that everything is ready.\'94 Wilson went off. As he left the lion roared again. \'93Noisy beggar,\'94 Wilson said. \'93We\'92ll put a stop to that.\'94 \'93What\'92s the matter, Francis?\'94 his wife asked him. \'93Nothing,\'94 Macomber said. \'93Yes, there is,\'94 she said. \'93What are you upset about?\'94 \'93Nothing,\'94 he said. \'93Tell me,\'94 she looked at him. \'93Don\'92t you feel well?\'94 \'93It\'92s that damned roaring,\'94 he said. \'93It\'92s been going on all night, you know.\'94 \'93Why didn\'92t you wake me,\'94 she said. \'93I\'92d love to have heard it.\'94 \'93I\'92ve got to kill the damned thing,\'94 Macomber said, miserably. \'93Well, that\'92s what you\'92re out here for, isn\'92t it?\'94 \'93Yes. But I\'92m nervous. Hearing the thing roar gets on my nerves.\'94 \'93Well then, as Wilson said, kill him and stop his roaring.\'94 \'93Yes, darling,\'94 said Francis Macomber. \'93It sounds easy, doesn\'92t it?\'94 \'93You\'92re not afraid, are you?\'94 \'93Of course not. But I\'92m nervous from hearing him roar all night.\'94 \'93You\'92ll kill him marvellously,\'94 she said. \'93I know you will. I\'92m awfully anxious to see it.\'94 \'93Finish your breakfast and we\'92ll be starting.\'94 \'93It\'92s not light yet,\'94 she said. \'93This is a ridiculous hour.\'94 Just then the lion roared in a deep-chested moaning, suddenly guttural, ascending vibration that seemed to shake the air and ended in a sigh and a heavy, deep-chested grunt. \'93He sounds almost here,\'94 Macomber\'92s wife said. \'93My God,\'94 said Macomber. \'93I hate that damned noise.\'94 \'93It\'92s very impressive.\'94 \'93Impressive. It\'92s frightful.\'94 Robert Wilson came up then carrying his short, ugly, shockingly big-bored .505 Gibbs and grinning. \'93Come on,\'94 he said. \'93Your gun-bearer has your Springfield and the big gun. Everything\'92s in the car. Have you solids?\'94 \'93Yes.\'94 \'93I\'92m ready,\'94 Mrs. Macomber said. \'93Must make him stop that racket,\'94 Wilson said. \'93You get in front. The Memsahib can sit back here with me.\'94 They climbed into the motor car and, in the gray first daylight, moved off up the river through the trees. Macomber opened the breech of his rifle and saw he had metal-cased bullets, shut the bolt and put the rifle on safety. He saw his hand was trembling. He felt in his pocket for more cartridges and moved his fingers over the cartridges in the loops of his tunic front. He turned back to where Wilson sat in the rear seat of the doorless, box-bodied motor car beside his wife, them both grinning with excitement, and Wilson leaned forward and whispered, \'93See the birds dropping. Means the old boy has left his kill.\'94 On the far bank of the stream Macomber could see, above the trees, vultures circling and plummeting down. \'93Chances are he\'92ll come to drink along here,\'94 Wilson whispered. \'93Before he goes to lay up. Keep an eye out.\'94 They were driving slowly along the high bank of the stream which here cut deeply to its boulderfilled bed, and they wound in and out through big trees as they drove. Macomber was watching the opposite bank when he felt Wilson take hold of his arm. The car stopped. \'93There he is,\'94 he heard the whisper. \'93Ahead and to the right. Get out and take him. He\'92s a marvellous lion.\'94 Macomber saw the lion now. He was standing almost broadside, his great head up and turned toward them. The early morning breeze that blew toward them was just stirring his dark mane, and the lion looked huge, silhouetted on the rise of bank in the gray morning light, his shoulders heavy, his barrel of a body bulking smoothly. \'93How far is he?\'94 asked Macomber, raising his rifle. \'93About seventy-five. Get out and take him.\'94 \'93Why not shoot from where I am?\'94 \'93You don\'92t shoot them from cars,\'94 he heard Wilson saying in his ear. \'93Get out. He\'92s not going to stay there all day.\'94 Macomber stepped out of the curved opening at the side of the front seat, onto the step and down onto the ground. The lion still stood looking majestically and coolly toward this object that his eyes only showed in silhouette, bulking like some super-rhino. There was no man smell carried toward him and he watched the object, moving his great head a little from side to side. Then watching the object, not afraid, but hesitating before going down the bank to drink with such a thing opposite him, he saw a man figure detach itself from it and he turned his heavy head and swung away toward the cover of the trees as he heard a cracking crash and felt the slam of a .30-06 220-grain solid bullet that bit his flank and ripped in sudden hot scalding nausea through his stomach. He trotted, heavy, bigfooted, swinging wounded full-bellied, through the trees toward the tall grass and cover, and the crash came again to go past him ripping the air apart. Then it crashed again and he felt the blow as it hit his lower ribs and ripped on through, blood sudden hot and frothy in his mouth, and he galloped toward the high grass where he could crouch and not be seen and make them bring the crashing thing close enough so he could make a rush and get the man that held it. Macomber had not thought how the lion felt as he got out of the car. He only knew his hands were shaking and as he walked away from the car it was almost impossible for him to make his legs move. They were stiff in the thighs, but he could feel the muscles fluttering. He raised the rifle, sighted on the junction of the lion\'92s head and shoulders and pulled the trigger. Nothing happened though he pulled until he thought his finger would break. Then he knew he had the safety on and as he lowered the rifle to move the safety over he moved another frozen pace forward, and the lion seeing his silhouette flow clear of the silhouette of the car, turned and started off at a trot, and, as Macomber fired, he heard a whunk that meant that the bullet was home; but the lion kept on going. Macomber shot again and every one saw the bullet throw a spout of dirt beyond the trotting lion. He shot again, remembering to lower his aim, and they all heard the bullet hit, and the lion went into a gallop and was in the tall grass before he had the bolt pushed forward. Macomber stood there feeling sick at his stomach, his hands that held the Springfield still cocked, shaking, and his wife and Robert Wilson were standing by him. Beside him too were the two gun-bearers chattering in Wakamba. \'93I hit him,\'94 Macomber said. \'93I hit him twice.\'94 \'93You gut-shot him and you hit him somewhere forward,\'94 Wilson said without enthusiasm. The gun-bearers looked very grave. They were silent now. \'93You may have killed him,\'94 Wilson went on. \'93We\'92ll have to wait a while before we go in to find out\'94 \'93What do you mean?\'94 \'93Let him get sick before we follow him up.\'94 \'93Oh,\'94 said Macomber. \'93He\'92s a hell of a fine lion,\'94 Wilson said cheerfully. \'93He\'92s gotten into a bad place though.\'94 \'93Why is it bad?\'94 \'93Can\'92t see him until you\'92re on him.\'94 \'93Oh,\'94 said Macomber. \'93Come on,\'94 said Wilson. \'93The Memsahib can stay here in the car. We\'92ll go to have a look at the blood spoor.\'94 \'93Stay here, Margot,\'94 Macomber said to his wife. His mouth was very dry and it was hard for him to talk. \'93Why?\'94 she asked. \'93Wilson says to.\'94 \'93We\'92re going to have a look,\'94 Wilson said. \'93You stay here. You can see even better from here.\'94 \'93All right.\'94 Wilson spoke in Swahili to the driver. He nodded and said, \'93Yes, Bwana.\'94 Then they went down the steep bank and across the stream, climbing over and around the boulders and up the other bank, pulling up by some projecting roots, and along it until they found where the lion had been trotting when Macomber first shot. There was dark blood on the short grass that the gun-bearers pointed out with grass stems, and that ran away behind the river bank trees. \'93What do we do?\'94 asked Macomber. \'93Not much choice,\'94 said Wilson. \'93We can\'92t bring the car over. Bank\'92s too steep. We\'92ll let him stiffen up a bit and then you and I\'92ll go in and have a look for him.\'94 \'93Can\'92t we set the grass on fire?\'94 Macomber asked. \'93Too green.\'94 \'93Can\'92t we send beaters?\'94 Wilson looked at him appraisingly. \'93Of course we can,\'94 he said. \'93But it\'92s just a touch murderous. You see, we know the lion\'92s wounded. You can drive an unwounded lion\'97he\'92ll move on ahead of a noise\'97but a wounded lion\'92s going to charge. You can\'92t see him until you\'92re right on him. He\'92ll make himself perfectly flat in cover you wouldn\'92t think would hide a hare. You can\'92t very well send boys in there to that sort of a show. Somebody bound to get mauled.\'94 \'93What about the gun-bearers?\'94 \'93Oh, they\'92ll go with us. It\'92s their shauri. You see, they signed on for it. They don\'92t look too happy though, do they?\'94 \'93I don\'92t want to go in there,\'94 said Macomber. It was out before he knew he\'92d said it. \'93Neither do I,\'94 said Wilson very cheerily. \'93Really no choice though.\'94 Then, as an afterthought, he glanced at Macomber and saw suddenly how he was trembling and the pitiful look on his face. \'93You don\'92t have to go in, of course,\'94 he said. \'93That\'92s what I\'92m hired for, you know. That\'92s why I\'92m so expensive.\'94 \'93You mean you\'92d go in by yourself? Why not leave him there?\'94 Robert Wilson, whose entire occupation had been with the lion and the problem he presented, and who had not been thinking about Macomber except to note that he was rather windy, suddenly felt as though he had opened the wrong door in a hotel and seen something shameful. \'93What do you mean?\'94 \'93Why not just leave him?\'94 \'93You mean pretend to ourselves he hasn\'92t been hit?\'94 \'93No. Just drop it.\'94 \'93It isn\'92t done.\'94 \'93Why not?\'94 \'93For one thing, he\'92s certain to be suffering. For another, some one else might run onto him.\'94 \'93I see.\'94 \'93But you don\'92t have to have anything to do with it.\'94 \'93I\'92d like to,\'94 Macomber said. \'93I\'92m just scared, you know.\'94 \'93I\'92ll go ahead when we go in,\'94 Wilson said, \'93with Kongoni tracking. You keep behind me and a little to one side. Chances are we\'92ll hear him growl. If we see him we\'92ll both shoot. Don\'92t worry about anything. I\'92ll keep you backed up. As a matter of fact, you know, perhaps you\'92d better not go. It might be much better. Why don\'92t you go over and join the Memsahib while I just get it over with?\'94 \'93No, I want to go.\'94 \'93All right,\'94 said Wilson. \'93But don\'92t go in if you don\'92t want to. This is my shauri now, you know.\'94 \'93I want to go,\'94 said Macomber. They sat under a tree and smoked. \'93Want to go back and speak to the Memsahib while we\'92re waiting?\'94 Wilson asked. \'93No.\'94 \'93I\'92ll just step back and tell her to be patient.\'94 \'93Good,\'94 said Macomber. He sat there, sweating under his arms, his mouth dry, his stomach hollow feeling, wanting to find courage to tell Wilson to go on and finish off the lion without him. He could not know that Wilson was furious because he had not noticed the state he was in earlier and sent him back to his wife. While he sat there Wilson came up. \'93I have your big gun,\'94 he said. \'93Take it. We\'92ve given him time, I think. Come on.\'94 Macomber took the big gun and Wilson said: \'93Keep behind me and about five yards to the right and do exactly as I tell you.\'94 Then he spoke in Swahili to the two gun-bearers who looked the picture of gloom. \'93Let\'92s go,\'94 he said. \'93Could I have a drink of water?\'94 Macomber asked. Wilson spoke to the older gun-bearer, who wore a canteen on his belt, and the man unbuckled it, unscrewed the top and handed it to Macomber, who took it noticing how heavy it seemed and how hairy and shoddy the felt covering was in his hand. He raised it to drink and looked ahead at the high grass with the flat-topped trees behind it. A breeze was blowing toward them and the grass rippled gently in the wind. He looked at the gun-bearer and he could see the gun-bearer was suffering too with fear. Thirty-five yards into the grass the big lion lay flattened out along the ground. His ears were back and his only movement was a slight twitching up and down of his long, black-tufted tail. He had turned at bay as soon as he had reached this cover and he was sick with the wound through his full belly, and weakening with the wound through his lungs that brought a thin foamy red to his mouth each time he breathed. His flanks were wet and hot and flies were on the little openings the solid bullets had made in his tawny hide, and his big yellow eyes, narrowed with hate, looked straight ahead, only blinking when the pain came as he breathed, and his claws dug in the soft baked earth. All of him, pain, sickness, hatred and all of his remaining strength, was tightening into an absolute concentration for a rush. He could hear the men talking and he waited, gathering all of himself into this preparation for a charge as soon as the men would come into the grass. As he heard their voices his tail stiffened to twitch up and down, and, as they came into the edge of the grass, he made a coughing grunt and charged. Kongoni, the old gun-bearer, in the lead watching the blood spoor, Wilson watching the grass for any movement, his big gun ready, the second gun-bearer looking ahead and listening, Macomber close to Wilson, his rifle cocked, they had just moved into the grass when Macomber heard the bloodchoked coughing grunt, and saw the swishing rush in the grass. The next thing he knew he was running; running wildly, in panic in the open, running toward the stream. He heard the ca-ra-wong! of Wilson\'92s big rifle, and again in a second crashing carawong! and turning saw the lion, horrible-looking now, with half his head seeming to be gone, crawling toward Wilson in the edge of the tall grass while the red-faced man worked the bolt on the short ugly rifle and aimed carefully as another blasting carawong! came from the muzzle, and the crawling, heavy, yellow bulk of the lion stiffened and the huge, mutilated head slid forward and Macomber, standing by himself in the clearing where he had run, holding a loaded rifle, while two black men and a white man looked back at him in contempt, knew the lion was dead. He came toward Wilson, his tallness all seeming a naked reproach, and Wilson looked at him and said: \'93Want to take pictures?\'94 \'93No,\'94 he said. That was all any one had said until they reached the motor car. Then Wilson had said: \'93Hell of a fine lion. Boys will skin him out. We might as well stay here in the shade.\'94 Macomber\'92s wife had not looked at him nor he at her and he had sat by her in the back seat with Wilson sitting in the front seat. Once he had reached over and taken his wife\'92s hand without looking at her and she had removed her hand from his. Looking across the stream to where the gun-bearers were skinning out the lion he could see that she had been able to see the whole thing. While they sat there his wife had reached forward and put her hand on Wilson\'92s shoulder. He turned and she had leaned forward over the low seat and kissed him on the mouth. \'93Oh, I say,\'94 said Wilson, going redder than his natural baked color. \'93Mr. Robert Wilson,\'94 she said. \'93The beautiful red-faced Mr. Robert Wilson.\'94 Then she sat down beside Macomber again and looked away across the stream to where the lion lay, with uplifted, white-muscled, tendon-marked naked forearms, and white bloating belly, as the black men fleshed away the skin. Finally the gun-bearers brought the skin over, wet and heavy, and climbed in behind with it, rolling it up before they got in, and the motor car started. No one had said anything more until they were back in camp. That was the story of the lion. Macomber did not know how the lion had felt before he started his rush, nor during it when the unbelievable smash of the .505 with a muzzle velocity of two tons had hit him in the mouth, nor what kept him coming after that, when the second ripping crash had smashed his hind quarters and he had come crawling on toward the crashing, blasting thing that had destroyed him. Wilson knew something about it and only expressed it by saying, \'93Damned fine lion,\'94 but Macomber did not know how Wilson felt about things either. He did not know how his wife felt except that she was through with him. His wife had been through with him before but it never lasted. He was very wealthy, and would be much wealthier, and he knew she would not leave him ever now. That was one of the few things that he really knew. He knew about that, about motor cycles\'97that was earliest\'97about motor cars, about duck-shooting, about fishing, trout, salmon and big-sea, about sex in books, many books, too many books, about all court games, about dogs, not much about horses, about hanging on to his money, about most of the other things his world dealt in, and about his wife not leaving him. His wife had been a great beauty and she was still a great beauty in Africa, but she was not a great enough beauty any more at home to be able to leave him and better herself and she knew it and he knew it. She had missed the chance to leave him and he knew it. If he had been better with women she would probably have started to worry about him getting another new, beautiful wife; but she knew too much about him to worry about him either. Also, he had always had a great tolerance which seemed the nicest thing about him if it were not the most sinister. All in all they were known as a comparatively happily married couple, one of those whose disruption is often rumored but never occurs, and as the society columnist put it, they were adding more than a spice of adventure to their much envied and ever-enduring Romance by a Safari in what was known as Darkest Africa until the Martin Johnsons lighted it on so many silver screens where they were pursuing Old Simba the lion, the buffalo, Tembo the elephant and as well collecting specimens for the Museum of Natural History. This same columnist had reported them on the verge at least three times in the past and they had been. But they always made it up. They had a sound basis of union. Margot was too beautiful for Macomber to divorce her and Macomber had too much money for Margot ever to leave him. It was now about three o\'92clock in the morning and Francis Macomber, who had been asleep a little while after he had stopped thinking about the lion, wakened and then slept again, woke suddenly, frightened in a dream of the bloody-headed lion standing over him, and listening while his heart pounded, he realized that his wife was not in the other cot in the tent. He lay awake with that knowledge for two hours. At the end of that time his wife came into the tent, lifted her mosquito bar and crawled cozily into bed. \'93Where have you been?\'94 Macomber asked in the darkness. \'93Hello,\'94 she said. \'93Are you awake?\'94 \'93Where have you been?\'94 \'93I just went out to get a breath of air.\'94 \'93You did, like hell.\'94 \'93What do you want me to say, darling?\'94 \'93Where have you been?\'94 \'93Out to get a breath of air.\'94 \'93That\'92s a new name for it. You are a bitch.\'94 \'93Well, you\'92re a coward.\'94 \'93All right,\'94 he said. \'93What of it?\'94 \'93Nothing as far as I\'92m concerned. But please let\'92s not talk, darling, because I\'92m very sleepy.\'94 \'93You think that I\'92ll take anything.\'94 \'93I know you will, sweet.\'94 \'93Well, I won\'92t.\'94 \'93Please, darling, let\'92s not talk. I\'92m so very sleepy.\'94 \'93There wasn\'92t going to be any of that. You promised there wouldn\'92t be.\'94 \'93Well, there is now,\'94 she said sweetly. \'93You said if we made this trip that there would be none of that. You promised.\'94 \'93Yes, darling. That\'92s the way I meant it to be. But the trip was spoiled yesterday. We don\'92t have to talk about it, do we?\'94 \'93You don\'92t wait long when you have an advantage, do you?\'94 \'93Please let\'92s not talk. I\'92m so sleepy, darling.\'94 \'93I\'92m going to talk.\'94 \'93Don\'92t mind me then, because I\'92m going to sleep.\'94 And she did. At breakfast they were all three at the table before daylight and Francis Macomber found that, of all the many men that he had hated, he hated Robert Wilson the most. \'93Sleep well?\'94 Wilson asked in his throaty voice, filling a pipe. \'93Did you?\'94 \'93Topping,\'94 the white hunter told him. You bastard, thought MaComber, you insolent bastard. So she woke him when she came in, Wilson thought, looking at them both with his flat, cold eyes. Well, why doesn\'92t he keep his wife where she belongs? What does he think I am, a bloody plaster saint? Let him keep her where she belongs. It\'92s his own fault. \'93Do you think we\'92ll find buffalo?\'94 Margot asked, pushing away a dish of apricots. \'93Chance of it,\'94 Wilson said and smiled at her. \'93Why don\'92t you stay in camp?\'94 \'93Not for anything,\'94 she told him. \'93Why not order her to stay in camp?\'94 Wilson said to Macomber. \'93You order her,\'94 said Macomber coldly. \'93Let\'92s not have any ordering, nor,\'94 turning to Macomber, \'93any silliness. Francis,\'94 Margot said quite pleasantly. \'93Are you ready to start?\'94 Macomber asked. \'93Any time,\'94 Wilson told him. \'93Do you want the Memsahib to go?\'94 \'93Does it make any difference whether I do or not?\'94 The hell with it, thought Robert Wilson. The utter complete hell with it. So this is what it\'92s going to be like. Well, this is what it\'92s going to be like, then. \'93Makes no difference,\'94 he said. \'93You\'92re sure you wouldn\'92t like to stay in camp with her yourself and let me go out and hunt the buffalo?\'94 Macomber asked. \'93Can\'92t do that,\'94 said Wilson. \'93Wouldn\'92t talk rot if I were you.\'94 \'93I\'92m not talking rot. I\'92m disgusted.\'94 \'93Bad word, disgusted.\'94 \'93Francis, will you please try to speak sensibly,\'94 his wife said. \'93I speak too damned sensibly,\'94 Macomber said. \'93Did you ever eat such filthy food?\'94 \'93Something wrong with the food?\'94 asked Wilson quietly. \'93No more than with everything else.\'94 \'93I\'92d pull yourself together, laddybuck,\'94 Wilson said very quietly. \'93There\'92s a boy waits at table that understands a little English.\'94 \'93The hell with him.\'94 Wilson stood up and puffing on his pipe strolled away, speaking a few words in Swahili to one of the gun-bearers who was standing waiting for him. Macomber and his wife sat on at the table. He was staring at his coffee cup. \'93If you make a scene I\'92ll leave you, darling,\'94 Margot said quietly. \'93No, you won\'92t.\'94 \'93You can try it and see.\'94 \'93You won\'92t leave me.\'94 \'93No,\'94 she said. \'93I won\'92t leave you and you\'92ll behave your self.\'94 \'93Behave myself? That\'92s a way to talk. Behave myself.\'94 \'93Yes. Behave yourself.\'94 \'93Why don\'92t you try behaving?\'94 \'93I\'92ve tried it so long. So very long.\'94 \'93I hate that red-faced swine,\'94 Macomber said. \'93I loathe the sight of him.\'94 \'93He\'92s really very nice.\'94 \'93Oh, shut up,\'94 Macomber almost shouted. Just then the car came up and stopped in front of the dining tent and the driver and the two gunbearers got out. Wilson walked over and looked at the husband and wife sitting there at the table. \'93Going shooting?\'94 he asked. \'93Yes,\'94 said Macomber, standing up. \'93Yes.\'94 \'93Better bring a woolly. It will be cool in the car,\'94 Wilson said. \'93I\'92ll get my leather jacket,\'94 Margot said. \'93The boy has it,\'94 Wilson told her. He climbed into the front with the driver and Francis Macomber and his wife sat, not speaking, in the back seat. Hope the silly beggar doesn\'92t take a notion to blow the back of my head off, Wilson thought to himself. Women are a nuisance on safari. The car was grinding down to cross the river at a pebbly ford in the gray daylight and then climbed, angling up the steep bank, where Wilson had ordered a way shovelled out the day before so they could reach the parklike wooded rolling country on the far side. It was a good morning, Wilson thought. There was a heavy dew and as the wheels went through the grass and low bushes he could smell the odor of the crushed fronds. It was an odor like verbena and he liked this early morning smell of the dew, the crushed bracken and the look of the tree trunks showing black through the early morning mist, as the car made its way through the untracked, parklike country. He had put the two in the back seat out of his mind now and was thinking about buffalo. The buffalo that he was after stayed in the daytime in a thick swamp where it was impossible to get a shot, but in the night they fed out into an open stretch of country and if he could come between them and their swamp with the car, Macomber would have a good chance at them in the open. He did not want to hunt buff with Macomber in thick cover. He did not want to hunt buff or anything else with Macomber at all, but he was a professional hunter and he had hunted with some rare ones in his time. If they got buff today there would only be rhino to come and the poor man would have gone through his dangerous game and things might pick up. He\'92d have nothing more to do with the woman and Macomber would get over that too. He must have gone through plenty of that before by the look of things. Poor beggar. He must have a way of getting over it. Well, it was the poor sod\'92s own bloody fault. He, Robert Wilson, carried a double size cot on safari to accommodate any windfalls he might receive. He had hunted for a certain clientele, the international, fast, sporting set, where the women did not feel they were getting their money\'92s worth unless they had shared that cot with the white hunter. He despised them when he was away from them although he liked some of them well enough at the time, but he made his living by them; and their standards were his standards as long as they were hiring him. They were his standards in all except the shooting. He had his own standards about the killing and they could live up to them or get some one else to hunt them. He knew, too, that they all respected him for this. This Macomber was an odd one though. Damned if he wasn\'92t. Now the wife. Well, the wife. Yes, the wife. Hm, the wife. Well he\'92d dropped all that. He looked around at them. Macomber sat grim and furious. Margot smiled at him. She looked younger today, more innocent and fresher and not so professionally beautiful. What\'92s in her heart God knows, Wilson thought. She hadn\'92t talked much last night. At that it was a pleasure to see her. The motor car climbed up a slight rise and went on through the trees and then out into a grassy prairie-like opening and kept in the shelter of the trees along the edge, the driver going slowly and Wilson looking carefully out across the prairie and all along its far side. He stopped the car and studied the opening with his field glasses. Then he motioned to the driver to go on and the car moved slowly along, the driver avoiding warthog holes and driving around the mud castles ants had built. Then, looking across the opening, Wilson suddenly turned and said, \'93By God, there they are!\'94 And looking where he pointed, while the car jumped forward and Wilson spoke in rapid Swahili to the driver, Macomber saw three huge, black animals looking almost cylindrical in their long heaviness, like big black tank cars, moving at a gallop across the far edge of the open prairie. They moved at a stiff-necked, stiff bodied gallop and he could see the upswept wide black horns on their heads as they galloped heads out; the heads not moving. \'93They\'92re three old bulls,\'94 Wilson said. \'93We\'92ll cut them off before they get to the swamp.\'94 The car was going a wild forty-five miles an hour across the open and as Macomber watched, the buffalo got bigger and bigger until he could see the gray, hairless, scabby look of one huge bull and how his neck was a part of his shoulders and the shiny black of his horns as he galloped a little behind the others that were strung out in that steady plunging gait; and then, the car swaying as though it had just jumped a road, they drew up close and he could see the plunging hugeness of the bull, and the dust in his sparsely haired hide, the wide boss of horn and his outstretched, wide-nostrilled muzzle, and he was raising his rifle when Wilson shouted, \'93Not from the car, you fool!\'94 and he had no fear, only hatred of Wilson, while the brakes clamped on and the car skidded, plowing sideways to an almost stop and Wilson was out on one side and he on the other, stumbling as his feet hit the still speeding-by of the earth, and then he was shooting at the bull as he moved away, hearing the bullets whunk into him, emptying his rifle at him as he moved steadily away, finally remembering to get his shots forward into the shoulder, and as he fumbled to re-load, he saw the bull was down. Down on his knees, his big head tossing, and seeing the other two still galloping he shot at the leader and hit him. He shot again and missed and he heard the carawonging roar as Wilson shot and saw the leading bull slide forward onto his nose. \'93Get that other,\'94 Wilson said. \'93Now you\'92re shooting!\'94 But the other bull was moving steadily at the same gallop and he missed, throwing a spout of dirt, and Wilson missed and the dust rose in a cloud and Wilson shouted, \'93Come on. He\'92s too far!\'94 and grabbed his arm and they were in the car again, Macomber and Wilson hanging on the sides and rocketing swayingly over the uneven ground, drawing up on the steady, plunging, heavy-necked, straight-moving gallop of the bull. They were behind him and Macomber was filling his rifle, dropping shells onto the ground, jamming it, clearing the jam, then they were almost up with the bull when Wilson yelled \'93Stop,\'94 and the car skidded so that it almost swung over and Macomber fell forward onto his feet, slammed his bolt forward and fired as far forward as he could aim into the galloping, rounded black back, aimed and shot again, then again, then again, and the bullets, all of them hitting, had no effect on the buffalo that he could see. Then Wilson shot, the roar deafening him, and he could see the bull stagger. Macomber shot again, aiming carefully, and down he came, onto his knees. \'93All right,\'94 Wilson said. \'93Nice work. That\'92s the three.\'94 Macomber felt a drunken elation. \'93How many times did you shoot?\'94 he asked. \'93Just three,\'94 Wilson said. \'93You killed the first bull. The biggest one. I helped you finish the other two. Afraid they might have got into cover. You had them killed. I was just mopping up a little. You shot damn well.\'94 \'93Let\'92s go to the car,\'94 said Macomber. \'93I want a drink.\'94 \'93Got to finish off that buff first,\'94 Wilson told him. The buffalo was on his knees and he jerked his head furiously and bellowed in pig-eyed, roaring rage as they came toward him. \'93Watch he doesn\'92t get up,\'94 Wilson said. Then, \'93Get a little broadside and take him in the neck just behind the ear.\'94 Macomber aimed carefully at the center of the huge, jerking, rage-driven neck and shot. At the shot the head dropped forward. \'93That does it,\'94 said Wilson. \'93Got the spine. They\'92re a hell of a looking thing, aren\'92t they?\'94 \'93Let\'92s get the drink,\'94 said Macomber. In his life he had never felt so good. In the car Macomber\'92s wife sat very white-faced. \'93You were marvellous, darling,\'94 she said to Macomber. \'93What a ride.\'94 \'93Was it rough?\'94 Wilson asked. \'93It was frightful. I\'92ve never been more frightened in my life.\'94 \'93Let\'92s all have a drink,\'94 Macomber said. \'93By all means,\'94 said Wilson. \'93Give it to the Memsahib.\'94 She drank the neat whisky from the flask and shuddered a little when she swallowed. She handed the flask to Macomber who handed it to Wilson. \'93It was frightfully exciting,\'94 she said. \'93It\'92s given me a dreadful headache. I didn\'92t know you were allowed to shoot them from cars though. \'93No one shot from cars,\'94 said Wilson coldly. \'93I mean chase them from cars.\'94 \'93Wouldn\'92t ordinarily,\'94 Wilson said. \'93Seemed sporting enough to me though while we were doing it. Taking more chance driving that way across the plain full of holes and one thing and another than hunting on foot. Buffalo could have charged us each time we shot if he liked. Gave him every chance. Wouldn\'92t mention it to any one though. It\'92s illegal if that\'92s what you mean.\'94 \'93It seemed very unfair to me,\'94 Margot said, \'93chasing those big helpless things in a motor car.\'94 \'93Did it?\'94 said Wilson. \'93What would happen if they heard about it in Nairobi?\'94 \'93I\'92d lose my licence for one thing. Other unpleasantnesses,\'94 Wilson said, taking a drink from the flask. \'93I\'92d be out of business.\'94 \'93Really?\'94 \'93Yes, really.\'94 \'93Well,\'94 said Macomber, and he smiled for the first time all day. \'93Now she has something on you.\'94 \'93You have such a pretty way of putting things, Francis,\'94 Margot Macomber said. Wilson looked at them both. If a four-letter man marries a five-letter woman, he was thinking, what number of letters would their children be? What he said was, \'93We lost a gun-bearer. Did you notice it?\'94 \'93My God, no,\'94 Macomber said. \'93Here he comes,\'94 Wilson said. \'93He\'92s all right. He must have fallen off when we left the first bull.\'94 Approaching them was the middle-aged gun-bearer, limping along in his knitted cap, khaki tunic, shorts and rubber sandals, gloomy-faced and disgusted looking. As he came up he called out to Wilson in Swahili and they all saw the change in the white hunter\'92s face. \'93What does he say?\'94 asked Margot. \'93He says the first bull got up and went into the bush,\'94 Wilson said with no expression in his voice. \'93Oh,\'94 said Macomber blankly. \'93Then it\'92s going to be just like the lion,\'94 said Margot, rull of anticipation. \'93It\'92s not going to be a damned bit like the lion,\'94 Wilson told her. \'93Did you want another drink, Macomber?\'94 \'93Thanks, yes,\'94 Macomber said. He expected the feeling he had had about the lion to come back but it did not. For the first time in his life he really felt wholly without fear. Instead of fear he had a feeling of definite elation. \'93We\'92ll go and have a look at the second bull,\'94 Wilson said. \'93I\'92ll tell the driver to put the car in the shade.\'94 \'93What are you going to do?\'94 asked Margaret Macomber. \'93Take a look at the buff,\'94 Wilson said. \'93I\'92ll come.\'94 \'93Come along.\'94 The three of them walked over to where the second buffalo bulked blackly in the open, head forward on the grass, the massive horns swung wide. \'93He\'92s a very good head,\'94 Wilson said. \'93That\'92s dose to a fifty-inch spread.\'94 Macomber was looking at him with delight. \'93He\'92s hateful looking,\'94 said Margot. \'93Can\'92t we go into the shade?\'94 \'93Of course,\'94 Wilson said. \'93Look,\'94 he said to Macomber, and pointed. \'93See that patch of bush?\'94 \'93Yes.\'94 \'93That\'92s where the first bull went in. The gun-bearer said when he fell off the bull was down. He was watching us helling along and the other two buff galloping. When he looked up there was the bull up and looking at him. Gun-bearer ran like hell and the bull went off slowly into that bush.\'94 \'93Can we go in after him now?\'94 asked Macomber eagerly. Wilson looked at him appraisingly. Damned if this isn\'92t a strange one, he thought. Yesterday he\'92s scared sick and today he\'92s a ruddy fire eater. \'93No, we\'92ll give him a while.\'94 \'93Let\'92s please go into the shade,\'94 Margot said. Her face was white and she looked ill. They made their way to the car where it stood under a single, wide-spreading tree and all climbed in. \'93Chances are he\'92s dead in there,\'94 Wilson remarked. \'93After a little we\'92ll have a look.\'94 Macomber felt a wild unreasonable happiness that he had never known before. \'93By God, that, was a chase,\'94 he said. \'93I\'92ve never felt any such feeling. Wasn\'92t it marvellous, Margot?\'94 \'93I hated it.\'94 \'93Why?\'94 \'93I hated it,\'94 she said bitterly. \'93I loathed it.\'94 \'93You know I don\'92t think I\'92d ever be afraid of anything again,\'94 Macomber said to Wilson. \'93Something happened in me after we first saw the buff and started after him. Like a dam bursting. It was pure excitement.\'94 \'93Cleans out your liver,\'94 said Wilson. \'93Damn funny things happen to people.\'94 Macomber\'92s face was shining. \'93You know something did happen to me,\'94 he said. \'93I feel absolutely different.\'94 His wife said nothing and eyed him strangely. She was sitting far back in the seat and Macomber was sitting forward talking to Wilson who turned sideways talking over the back of the front seat. \'93You know, I\'92d like to try another lion,\'94 Macomber said. \'93I\'92m really not afraid of them now. After all, what can they do to you?\'94 \'93That\'92s it,\'94 said Wilson. \'93Worst one can do is kill you. How does it go? Shakespeare. Damned good. See if I can remember. Oh, damned good. Used to quote it to myself at one time. Let\'92s see. \'91By my troth, I care not; a man can die but once; we owe God a death and let it go which way it will, he that dies this year is quit for the next.\'92 Damned fine, eh?\'94 He was very embarrassed, having brought out this thing he had lived by, but he had seen men come of age before and it always moved him. It was not a matter of their twenty-first birthday. It had taken a strange chance of hunting, a sudden precipitation into action without opportunity for worrying beforehand, to bring this about with Macomber, but regardless of how it had happened it had most certainly happened. Look at the beggar now, Wilson thought. It\'92s that some of them stay little boys so long, Wilson thought. Sometimes all their lives. Their figures stay boyish when they\'92re fifty. The great American boy-men. Damned strange people. But he liked this Macomber now. Damned strange fellow. Probably meant the end of cuckoldry too. Well, that would be a damned good thing. Damned good thing. Beggar had probably been afraid all his life. Don\'92t know what started it. But over now. Hadn\'92t had time to be afraid with the buff. That and being angry too. Motor car too. Motor cars made it familiar. Be a damn fire eater now. He\'92d seen it in the war work the same way. More of a change than any loss of virginity. Fear gone like an operation. Something else grew in its place. Main thing a man had. Made him into a man. Women knew it too. No bloody fear. From the far corner of the seat Margaret Macomber looked at the two of them. There was no change in Wilson. She saw Wilson as she had seen him the day before when she had first realized what his great talent was. But she saw the change in Francis Macomber now. \'93Do you have that feeling of happiness about what\'92s going to happen?\'94 Macomber asked, still exploring his new wealth. \'93You\'92re not supposed to mention it,\'94 Wilson said, looking in the other\'92s face. \'93Much more fashionable to say you\'92re scared. Mind you, you\'92ll be scared too, plenty of times.\'94 \'93But you have a feeling of happiness about action to come?\'94 \'93Yes,\'94 said Wilson. \'93There\'92s that. Doesn\'92t do to talk too much about all this. Talk the whole thing away. No pleasure in anything if you mouth it up too much.\'94 \'93You\'92re both talking rot,\'94 said Margot. \'93Just because you\'92ve chased some helpless animals in a motor car you talk like heroes.\'94 \'93Sorry,\'94 said Wilson. \'93I have been gassing too much.\'94 She\'92s worried about it already, he thought. \'93If you don\'92t know what we\'92re talking about why not keep out of it?\'94 Macomber asked his wife. \'93You\'92ve gotten awfully brave, awfully suddenly,\'94 his wife said contemptuously, but her contempt was not secure. She was very afraid of something. Macomber laughed, a very natural hearty laugh. \'93You know I have,\'94 he said. \'93I really have.\'94 \'93Isn\'92t it sort of late?\'94 Margot said bitterly. Because she had done the best she could for many years back and the way they were together now was no one person\'92s fault. \'93Not for me,\'94 said Macomber. Margot said nothing but sat back in the corner of the seat. \'93Do you think we\'92ve given him time enough?\'94 Macomber asked Wilson cheerfully. \'93We might have a look,\'94 Wilson said. \'93Have you any solids left?\'94 \'93The gun-bearer has some.\'94 Wilson called in Swahili and the older gun-bearer, who was skinning out one of the heads, straightened up, pulled a box of solids out of his pocket and brought them over to Macomber, who filled his magazine and put the remaining shells in his pocket. \'93You might as well shoot the Springfield,\'94 Wilson said. \'93You\'92re used to it. We\'92ll leave the Mannlicher in the car with the Memsahib. Your gun-bearer can carry your heavy gun. I\'92ve this damned cannon. Now let me tell you about them.\'94 He had saved this until the last because he did not want to worry Macomber. \'93When a buff comes he comes with his head high and thrust straight out. The boss of the horns covers any sort of a brain shot. The only shot is straight into the nose. The only other shot is into his chest or, if you\'92re to one side, into the neck or the shoulders. After they\'92ve been hit once they take a hell of a lot of killing. Don\'92t try anything fancy. Take the easiest shot there is. They\'92ve finished skinning out that head now. Should we get started?\'94 He called to the gun-bearers, who came up wiping their hands, and the older one got into the back. \'93I\'92ll only take Kongoni,\'94 Wilson said. \'93The other can watch to keep the birds away.\'94 As the car moved slowly across the open space toward the island of brushy trees that ran in a tongue of foliage along a dry water course that cut the open swale, Macomber felt his heart pounding and his mouth was dry again, but it was excitement, not fear. \'93Here\'92s where he went in,\'94 Wilson said. Then to the gun-bearer in Swahili, \'93Take the blood spoor.\'94 The car was parallel to the patch of bush. Macomber, Wilson and the gun-bearer got down. Macomber, looking back, saw his wife, with the rifle by her side, looking at him. He waved to her and she did not wave back. The brush was very thick ahead and the ground was dry. The middle-aged gun-bearer was sweating heavily and Wilson had his hat down over his eyes and his red neck showed just ahead of Macomber. Suddenly the gun-bearer said something in Swahili to Wilson and ran forward. \'93He\'92s dead in there,\'94 Wilson said. \'93Good work,\'94 and he turned to grip Macomber\'92s hand and as they shook hands, grinning at each other, the gun-bearer shouted wildly and they saw him coming out of the bush sideways, fast as a crab, and the bull coming, nose out, mouth tight closed, blood dripping, massive head straight out, coming in a charge, his little pig eyes bloodshot as he looked at them. Wilson, who was ahead, was kneeling shooting, and Macomber, as he fired, unhearing his shot in the roaring of Wilson\'92s gun, saw fragments like slate burst from the huge boss of the horns, and the head jerked, he shot again at the wide nostrils and saw the horns jolt again and fragments fly, and he did not see Wilson now and, aiming carefully, shot again with the buffalo\'92s huge bulk almost on him and his rifle almost level with the on-coming head, nose out, and he could see the little wicked eyes and the head started to lower and he felt a sudden white-hot, blinding flash explode inside his head and that was all he ever felt. Wilson had ducked to one side to get in a shoulder shot. Macomber had stood solid and shot for the nose, shooting a touch high each time and hitting the heavy horns, splintering and chipping them like hitting a slate roof, and Mrs. Macomber, in the car, had shot at the buffalo with the 6.5 Mannlicher as it seemed about to gore Macomber and had hit her husband about two inches up and a little to one side of the base of his skull. Francis Macomber lay now, face down, not two yards from where the buffalo lay on his side and his wife knelt over him with Wilson beside her. \'93I wouldn\'92t turn him over,\'94 Wilson said. The woman was crying hysterically. \'93I\'92d get back in the car,\'94 Wilson said. \'93Where\'92s the rifle?\'94 She shook her head, her face contorted. The gun-bearer picked up the rifle. \'93Leave it as it is,\'94 said Wilson. Then, \'93Go get Abdulla so that he may witness the manner of the accident.\'94 He knelt down, took a handkerchief from his pocket, and spread it over Francis Macomber\'92s crew-cropped head where it lay. The blood sank into the dry, loose earth. Wilson stood up and saw the buffalo on his side, his legs out, his thinly-haired belly crawling with ticks. \'93Hell of a good bull,\'94 his brain registered automatically. \'93A good fifty inches, or better. Better.\'94 He called to the driver and told him to spread a blanket over the body and stay by it. Then he walked over to the motor car where the woman sat crying in the corner. \'93That was a pretty thing to do,\'94 he said in a toneless voice. \'93He would have left you too.\'94 \'93Stop it,\'94 she said. \'93Of course it\'92s an accident,\'94 he said. \'93I know that.\'94 \'93Stop it,\'94 she said. \'93Don\'92t worry,\'94 he said. \'93There will be a certain amount of unpleasantness but I will have some photographs taken that will be very useful at the inquest. There\'92s the testimony of the gun-bearers and the driver too. You\'92re perfectly all right.\'94 \'93Stop it,\'94 she said. \'93There\'92s a hell of a lot to be done,\'94 he said. \'93And I\'92ll have to send a truck off to the lake to wireless for a plane to take the three of us into Nairobi. Why didn\'92t you poison him? That\'92s what they do in England.\'94 \'93Stop it. Stop it. Stop it,\'94 the woman cried. Wilson looked at her with his flat blue eyes. \'93I\'92m through now,\'94 he said. \'93I was a little angry. I\'92d begun to like your husband.\'94 \'93Oh, please stop it,\'94 she said. \'93Please stop it.\'94 \'93That\'92s better,\'94 Wilson said. \'93Please is much better. Now I\'92ll stop.\'94 The Capital of the World MADRID IS FULL OF BOYS NAMED PACO, which is the diminutive of the name Francisco, and there is a Madrid joke about a father who came to Madrid and inserted an advertisement in the personal columns of El Liberal which said: PACO MEET ME AT HOTEL MONTANA NOON TUESDAY ALL IS FORGIVEN PAPA and how a squadron of Guardia Civil had to be called out to disperse the eight hundred young men who answered the advertisement. But this Paco, who waited on table at the Pension Luarca, had no father to forgive him, nor anything for the father to forgive. He had two older sisters who were chambermaids at the Luarca, who had gotten their place through coming from the same small village as a former Luarca chambermaid who had proven hardworking and honest and hence given her village and its products a good name; and these sisters had paid his way on the auto-bus to Madrid and gotten him his job as an apprentice waiter. He came from a village in a part of Extramadura where conditions were incredibly primitive, food scarce, and comforts unknown and he had worked hard ever since he could remember. He was a well built boy with very black, rather curly hair, good teeth and a skin that his sisters envied, and he had a ready and unpuzzled smile. He was fast on his feet and did his work well and he loved his sisters, who seemed beautiful and sophisticated; he loved Madrid, which was still an unbelievable place, and he loved his work which, done under bright lights, with clean linen, the wearing of evening clothes, and abundant food in the kitchen, seemed romantically beautiful. There were from eight to a dozen other people who lived at the Luarca and ate in the dining room but for Paco, the youngest of the three waiters who served at table, the only ones who really existed were the bullfighters. Second-rate matadors lived at that pension because the address in the Calle San Jeronimo was good, the food was excellent and the room and board was cheap. It is necessary for a bull fighter to give the appearance, if not of prosperity, at least of respectability, since decorum and dignity rank above courage as the virtues most highly prized in Spain, and bullfighters stayed at the Luarca until their last pesetas were gone. There is no record of any bullfighter having left the Luarca for a better or more expensive hotel; second-rate bullfighters never became first rate; but the descent from the Luarca was swift since any one could stay there who was making anything at all and a bill was never presented to a guest unasked until the woman who ran the place knew that the case was hopeless. At this time there were three full matadors living at the Luarca as well as two very good picadors, and one excellent banderillero. The Luarca was luxury for the picadors and the banderilleros who, with their families in Seville, required lodging in Madrid during the Spring season; but they were well paid and in the fixed employ of fighters who were heavily contracted during the coming season and the three of these subalterns would probably make much more apiece than any of the three matadors. Of the three matadors one was ill and trying to conceal it; one had passed his short vogue as a novelty; and the third was a coward. The coward had at one time, until he had received a peculiarly atrocious horn wound in the lower abdomen at the start of his first season as a full matador, been exceptionally brave and remarkably skillful and he still had many of the hearty mannerisms of his days of success. He was jovial to excess and laughed constantly with and without provocation. He had, when successful, been very addicted to practical jokes but he had given them up now. They took an assurance that he did not feel. This matador had an intelligent, very open face and he carried himself with much style. The matador who was ill was careful never to show it and was meticulous about eating a little of all the dishes that were presented at the table. He had a great many handkerchiefs which he laundered himself in his room and, lately, he had been selling his fighting suits. He had sold one, cheaply, before Christmas and another in the first week of April. They had been very expensive suits, had always been well kept and he had one more. Before he had become ill he had been a very promising, even a sensational, fighter and, while he himself could not read, he had clippings which said that in his debut in Madrid he had been better than Belmonte. He ate alone at a small table and looked up very little. The matador who had once been a novelty was very short and brown and very dignified. He also ate alone at a separate table and he smiled very rarely and never laughed. He came from Valladolid, where the people are extremely serious, and he was a capable matador; but his style had become oldfashioned before he had ever succeeded in endearing himself to the public through his virtues, which were courage and a calm capability, and his name on a poster would draw no one to a bull ring. His novelty had been that he was so short that he could barely see over the bull\'92s withers, but there were other short fighters, and he had never succeeded in imposing himself on the public\'92s fancy. Of the picadors one was a thin, hawk-faced, gray-haired man, lightly built but with legs and arms like iron, who always wore cattlemen\'92s boots under his trousers, drank too much every evening and gazed amorously at any woman in the pension. The other was huge, dark, brown-faced, good-looking, with black hair like an Indian and enormous hands. Both were great picadors although the first was reputed to have lost much of his ability through drink and dissipation, and the second was said to be too headstrong and quarrelsome to stay with any matador more than a single season. The banderillero was middle-aged, gray, cat-quick in spite of his years and, sitting at the table he looked a moderately prosperous business man. His legs were still good for this season, and when they should go he was intelligent and experienced enough to keep regularly employed for a long time. The difference would be that when his speed of foot would be gone he would always be frightened where now he was assured and calm in the ring and out of it. On this evening every one had left the dining room except the hawk-faced picador who drank too much, the birthmarked-faced auctioneer of watches at the fairs and festivals of Spain, who also drank too much, and two priests from Galicia who were sitting at a corner table and drinking if not too much certainly enough. At that time wine was included in the price of the room and board at the Luarca and the waiters had just brought fresh bottles of Valdepe\'f1as to the tables of the auctioneer, then to the picador and, finally, to the two priests. The three waiters stood at the end of the room. It was the rule of the house that they should all remain on duty until the diners whose tables they were responsible for should all have left, but the one who served the table of the two priests had an appointment to go to an Anarcho-Syndicalist meeting and Paco had agreed to take over his table for him. Upstairs the matador who was ill was lying face down on his bed alone. The matador who was no longer a novelty was sitting looking out of his window preparatory to walking out to the caf\'e9. The matador who was a coward had the older sister of Paco in his room with him and was trying to get her to do something which she was laughingly refusing to do. This matador was saying \'93Come on, little savage.\'94 \'93No,\'94 said the sister. \'93Why should I?\'94 \'93For a favor.\'94 \'93You\'92ve eaten and now you want me for dessert.\'94 \'93Just once. What harm can it do?\'94 \'93Leave me alone. Leave me alone, I tell you.\'94 \'93It is a very little thing to do.\'94 \'93Leave me alone, I tell you.\'94 Down in the dining room the tallest of the waiters, who was overdue at the meeting, said \'93Look at those black pigs drink.\'94 \'93That\'92s no way to speak,\'94 said the second waiter. \'93They are decent clients. They do not drink too much.\'94 \'93For me it is a good way to speak,\'94 said the tall one. \'93There are the two curses of Spain, the bulls and the priests.\'94 \'93Certainly not the individual bull and the individual priest,\'94 said the second waiter. \'93Yes,\'94 said the tall waiter. \'93Only through the individual can you attack the class. It is necessary to kill the individual bull and the individual priest. All of them. Then there are no more.\'94 \'93Save it for the meeting,\'94 said the other waiter. \'93Look at the barbarity of Madrid,\'94 said the tall waiter. \'93It is now half-past eleven o\'92clock and these are still guzzling.\'94 \'93They only started to eat at ten,\'94 said the other waiter. \'93As you know there are many dishes. That wine is cheap and these have paid for it. It is not a strong wine.\'94 \'93How can there be solidarity of workers with fools like you?\'94 asked the tall waiter. \'93Look,\'94 said the second waiter who was a man of fifty. \'93I have worked all my life. In all that remains of my life I must work. I have no complaints against work. To work is normal.\'94 \'93Yes, but the lack of work kills.\'94 \'93I have always worked,\'94 said the older waiter. \'93Go on to the meeting. There is no necessity to stay.\'94 \'93You are a good comrade,\'94 said the tall waiter. \'93But you lack all ideology.\'94 \'93Mejor si me falta eso que el otro,\'94 said the older waiter (meaning it is better to lack that than work). \'93Go on to the mitin.\'94 Paco had said nothing. He did not yet understand politics but it always gave him a thrill to hear the tall waiter speak of the necessity for killing the priests and the Guardia Civil. The tall waiter represented to him revolution and revolution also was romantic. He himself would like to be a good Catholic, a revolutionary, and have a steady job like this, while, at the same time, being a bullfighter. \'93Go on to the meeting, Ignacio,\'94 he said. \'93I will respond for your work.\'94 \'93The two of us,\'94 said the older waiter. \'93There isn\'92t enough for one,\'94 said Paco. \'93Go on to the meeting.\'94 \'93Pues, me voy,\'94 said the tall waiter. \'93And thanks.\'94 In the meantime, upstairs, the sister of Paco had gotten out of the embrace of the matador as skilfully as a wrestler breaking a hold and said, now angry, \'93These are the hungry people. A failed bullfighter. With your ton-load of fear. If you have so much of that, use it in the ring.\'94 \'93That is the way a whore talks.\'94 \'93A whore is also a woman, but I am not a whore.\'94 \'93You\'92ll be one.\'94 \'93Not through you.\'94 \'93Leave me,\'94 said the matador who, now, repulsed and refused, felt the nakedness of his cowardice returning. \'93Leave you? What hasn\'92t left you?\'94 said the sister. \'93Don\'92t you want me to make up the bed? I\'92m paid to do that.\'94 \'93Leave me,\'94 said the matador, his broad good-looking face wrinkled into a contortion that was like crying. \'93You whore. You dirty little whore.\'94 \'93Matador,\'94 she said, shutting the door. \'93My matador.\'94 Inside the room the matador sat on the bed. His face still had the contortion which, in the ring, he made into a constant smile which frightened those people in the first rows of seats who knew what they were watching. \'93And this,\'94 he was saying aloud. \'93And this. And this.\'94 He could remember when he had been good and it had only been three years before. He could remember the weight of the heavy gold-brocaded fighting jacket on his shoulders on that hot afternoon in May when his voice had still been the same in the ring as in the cafe, and how he sighted along the point-dipping blade at the place in the top of the shoulders where it was dusty in the short-haired black hump of muscle above the wide, wood-knocking, splintered-tipped horns that lowered as he went in to kill, and how the sword pushed in as easy as into a mound of stiff butter with the palm of his hand pushing the pommel, his left arm crossed low, his left shoulder forward, his weight on his left leg, and then his weight wasn\'92t on his leg. His weight was on his lower belly and as the bull raised his head the horn was out of sight in him and he swung over on it twice before they pulled him off it. So now when he went into kill, and it was seldom, he could not look at the horns and what did any whore know about what he went through before be fought? And what had they been through that laughed at him? They were all whores and they knew what they could do with it. Down in the dining room the picador sat looking at the priests. If there were women in the room he stared at them. If there were no women he would stare with enjoyment at a foreigner, un ingl\'e9s, but lacking women or strangers, he now stared with enjoyment and insolence at the two priests. While he stared the birth-marked auctioneer rose and folding his napkin went out, leaving over half the wine in the last bottle he had ordered. If his accounts had been paid up at the Luarca he would have finished the bottle. The two priests did not stare back at the picador. One of them was saying, \'93It is ten days since I have been here waiting to see him and all day I sit in the ante-chamber and he will not receive me.\'94 \'93What is there to do?\'94 \'93Nothing. What can one do? One cannot go against authority.\'94 \'93I have been here for two weeks and nothing. I wait and they will not see me.\'94 \'93We are from the abandoned country. When the money runs out we can return.\'94 \'93To the abandoned country. What does Madrid care about Galicia? We are a poor province.\'94 \'93One understands the action of our brother Basilio.\'94 \'93Still I have no real confidence in the integrity of Basilio Alvarez.\'94 \'93Madrid is where one learns to understand. Madrid kills Spain.\'94 \'93If they would simply see one and refuse.\'94 \'93No. You must be broken and worn out by waiting.\'94 \'93Well, we shall see. I can wait as well as another.\'94 At this moment the picador got to his feet, walked over to the priests\'92 table and stood, grayheaded and hawk-faced, staring at them and smiling. \'93A torero,\'94 said one priest to the other. \'93And a good one,\'94 said the picador and walked out of the dining room, gray-jacketed, trimwaisted, bow-legged, in tight breeches over his high-heeled cattlemen\'92s boots that clicked on the floor as he swaggered quite steadily, smiling to himself. He lived in a small, tight, professional world of personal efficiency, nightly alcoholic triumph, and insolence. Now he lit a cigar and tilting his hat at an angle in the hallway went out to the caf\'e9. The priests left immediately after the picador, hurriedly conscious of being the last people in the dining room, and there was no one in the room now but Paco and the middle-aged waiter. They cleared the tables and carried the bottles into the kitchen. In the kitchen was the boy who washed the dishes. He was three years older than Paco and was very cynical and bitter. \'93Take this,\'94 the middle-aged waiter said, and poured out a glass of the Valdepe\'f1as and handed it to him. \'93Why not?\'94 the boy took the glass. \'93Tu, Paco?\'94 the older waiter asked. \'93Thank you,\'94 said Paco. The three of them drank. \'93I will be going,\'94 said the middle-aged waiter. \'93Good night,\'94 they told him. He went out and they were alone. Paco took a napkin one of the priests had used and standing straight, his heels planted, lowered the napkin and with head following the movement, swung his arms in the motion of a slow sweeping ver\'f3nica. He turned, and advancing his right foot slightly, made the second pass, gained a little terrain on the imaginary bull and made a third pass, slow, perfectly timed and suave, then gathered the napkin to his waist and swung his hips away from the bull in a mediaver\'f3nica. The dishwasher, whose name was Enrique, watched him critically and sneeringly. \'93How is the bull?\'94 he said. \'93Very brave,\'94 said Paco. \'93Look.\'94 Standing slim and straight he made four more perfect passes, smooth, elegant and graceful. \'93And the bull?\'94 asked Enrique standing against the sink, holding his wine glass and wearing his apron. \'93Still has lots of gas,\'94 said Paco. \'93You make me sick,\'94 said Enrique. \'93Why?\'94 \'93Look.\'94 Enrique removed his apron and citing the imaginary bull he sculptured four perfect, languid gypsy ver\'f3nicas and ended up with a rebolera that made the apron swing in a stiff arc past the bull\'92s nose as he walked away from him. \'93Look at that,\'94 he said. \'93And I wash dishes.\'94 \'93Why?\'94 \'93Fear,\'94 said Enrique. \'93Miedo. The same fear you would have in a ring with a bull.\'94 \'93No,\'94 said Paco. \'93I wouldn\'92t be afraid.\'94 \'93Leche!\'94 said Enrique. \'93Every one is afraid. But a torero can control his fear so that he can work the bull. I went in an amateur fight and I was so afraid I couldn\'92t keep from running. Every one thought it was very funny. So would you be afraid. If it wasn\'92t for fear every bootblack in Spain would be a bullfighter. You, a country boy, would be frightened worse than I was.\'94 \'93No,\'94 said Paco. He had done it too many times in his imagination. Too many times he had seen the horns, seen the bull\'92s wet muzzle, the ear twitching, then the head go down and the charge, the hoofs thudding and the hot bull pass him as he swung the cape, to re-charge as he swung the cape again, then again, and again, and again, to end winding the bull around him in his great media-ver\'f3nica, and walk swingingly away, with bull hairs caught in the gold ornaments of his jacket from the close passes; the bull standing hypnotized and the crowd applauding. No, he would not be afraid. Others, yes. Not he. He knew he would not be afraid. Even if he ever was afraid he knew that he could do it anyway. He had confidence. \'93I wouldn\'92t be afraid,\'94 he said. Enrique said, \'93Leche,\'94 again. Then he said, \'93If we should try it?\'94 \'93How?\'94 \'93Look,\'94 said Enrique. \'93You think of the bull but you do not think of the horns. The bull has such force that the horns rip like a knife, they stab like a bayonet, and they kill like a club. Look,\'94 he opened a table drawer and took out two meat knives. \'93I will bind these to the legs of a chair. Then I will play bull for you with the chair held before my head. The knives are the horns. If you make those passes then they mean something.\'94 \'93Lend me your apron,\'94 said Paco. \'93We\'92ll do it in the dining room.\'94 \'93No,\'94 said Enrique, suddenly not bitter. \'93Don\'92t do it, Paco.\'94 \'93Yes,\'94 said Paco. \'93I\'92m not afraid.\'94 \'93You will be when you see the knives come.\'94 \'93We\'92ll see,\'94 said Paco. \'93Give me the apron.\'94 At this time, while Enrique was binding the two heavy-bladed razor-sharp meat knives fast to the legs of the chair with two soiled napkins holding the half of each knife, wrapping them tight and then knotting them, the two chambermaids, Paco\'92s sisters, were on their way to the cinema to see Greta Garbo in Anna Christie. Of the two priests, one was sitting in his underwear reading his breviary and the other was wearing a nightshirt and saying the rosary. All the bullfighters except the one who was ill had made their evening appearance at the Caf\'e9 Fornos, where the big, dark-haired picador was playing billiards, the short, serious matador was sitting at a crowded table before a coffee and milk, along with the middle-aged banderillero and other serious workmen. The drinking, gray-headed picador was sitting with a glass of cazalas brandy before him staring with pleasure at a table where the matador whose courage was gone sat with another matador who had renounced the sword to become a banderillero again, and two very houseworn-looking prostitutes. The auctioneer stood on the street corner talking with friends. The tall waiter was at the Anarcho-syndicalist meeting waiting for an opportunity to speak. The middle-aged waiter was seated on the terrace of the Caf\'e9 Alvarez drinking a small beer. The woman who owned the Luarca was already asleep in her bed, where she lay on her back with the bolster between her legs; big, fat, honest, clean, easy-going, very religious and never having ceased to miss or pray daily for her husband, dead, now, twenty years. In his room, alone, the matador who was ill lay face down on his bed with his mouth against a handkerchief. Now, in the deserted dining room, Enrique tied the last knot in the napkins that bound the knives to the chair legs and lifted the chair. He pointed the legs with the knives on them forward and held the chair over his head with the two knives pointing straight ahead, one on each side of his head. \'93It\'92s heavy,\'94 he said. \'93Look, Paco. It is very dangerous. Don\'92t do it.\'94 He was sweating. Paco stood facing him, holding the apron spread, holding a fold of it bunched in each hand, thumbs up, first finger down, spread to catch the eye of the bull. \'93Charge straight,\'94 he said. \'93Turn like a bull. Charge as many times as you want.\'94 \'93How will you know when to cut the pass?\'94 asked Enrique. \'93It\'92s better to do three and then a media.\'94 \'93All right,\'94 said Paco. \'93But come straight. Huh, torito! Come on, little bull!\'94 Running with head down Enrique came toward him and Paco swung the apron just ahead of the knife blade as it passed close in front of his belly and as it went by it was, to him, the real horn, white-tipped, black, smooth, and as Enrique passed him and turned to rush again it was the hot, blood-flanked mass of the bull that thudded by, then turned like a cat and came again as he swung the cape slowly. Then the bull turned and came again and, as he watched the onrushing point, he stepped his left foot two inches too far forward and the knife did not pass, but had slipped in as easily as into a wineskin and there was a hot scalding rush above and around the sudden inner rigidity of steel and Enrique shouting. \'93Ay! Ay! Let me get it out! Let me get it out!\'94 and Paco slipped forward on the chair, the apron cape still held, Enrique pulling on the chair as the knife turned in him, in him, Paco. The knife was out now and he sat on the floor in the widening warm pool. \'93Put the napkin over it. Hold it!\'94 said Enrique. \'93Hold it tight. I will run for the doctor. You must hold in the hemorrhage.\'94 \'93There should be a rubber cup,\'94 said Paco. He had seen that used in the ring. \'93I came straight,\'94 said Enrique, crying. \'93All I wanted was to show the danger.\'94 \'93Don\'92t worry,\'94 said Paco, his voice sounding far away. \'93But bring the doctor.\'94 In the ring they lifted you and carried you, running with you, to the operating room. If the femoral artery emptied itself before you reached there they called the priest. \'93Advise one of the priests,\'94 said Paco, holding the napkin tight against his lower abdomen. He could not believe that this had happened to him. But Enrique was running down the Calle San Jer\'f3nimo to the all-night first-aid station and Paco was alone, first sitting up, then huddled over, then slumped on the floor, until it was over, feeling his life go out of him as dirty water empties from a bathtub when the plug is drawn. He was frightened and he felt faint and he tried to say an act of contrition and he remembered how it started but before he had said, as fast as he could, \'93Oh, my God, I am heartily sorry for having offended Thee who art worthy of all my love and I firmly resolve \'85,\'94 he felt too faint and he was lying face down on the floor and it was over very quickly. A severed femoral artery empties itself faster than you can believe. As the doctor from the first-aid station came up the stairs accompanied by a policeman who held on to Enrique by the arm, the two sisters of Paco were still in the moving-picture palace of the Gran Via, where they were intensely disappointed in the Garbo film, which showed the great star in miserable low surroundings when they had been accustomed to see her surrounded by great luxury and brilliance. The audience disliked the film thoroughly and were protesting by whistling and stamping their feet. All the other people from the hotel were doing almost what they had been doing when the accident happened, except that the two priests had finished their devotions and were preparing for sleep, and the gray-haired picador had moved his drink over to the table with the two houseworn prostitutes. A little later he went out of the caf\'e9 with one of them. It was the one for whom the matador who had lost his nerve had been buying drinks. The boy Paco had never known about any of this nor about what all these people would be doing on the next day and on other days to come. He had no idea how they really lived nor how they ended. He did not even realize they ended. He died, as the Spanish phrase has it, full of illusions. He had not had time in his life to lose any of them, nor even, at the end, to complete an act of contrition. He had not even had time to be disappointed in the Garbo picture which disappointed all Madrid for a week. Kilimanjaro is a snow-covered mountain 19,710 feet high, and is said to be the highest mountain in Africa. Its western summit is called the Masai \'93Ng\'e0je Na\'e0i,\'94 the House of God. Close to the western summit there is the dried and frozen carcass of a leopard. No one has explained what the leopard was seeking at that altitude. The Snows of Kilimanjaro \'93THE MARVELLOUS THING IS THAT IT\'92S painless,\'94 he said. \'93That\'92s how you know when it starts.\'94 \'93Is it really?\'94 \'93Absolutely. I\'92m awfully sorry about the odor though. That must bother you.\'94 \'93Don\'92t! Please don\'92t.\'94 \'93Look at them,\'94 he said. \'93Now is it sight or is it scent that brings them like that?\'94 The cot the man lay on was in the wide shade of a mimosa tree and as he looked out past the shade onto the glare of the plain there were three of the big birds squatted obscenely, while in the sky a dozen more sailed, making quick-moving shadows as they passed. \'93They\'92ve been there since the day the truck broke down,\'94 he said. \'93Today\'92s the first time any have lit on the ground. I watched the way they sailed very carefully at first in case I ever wanted to use them in a story. That\'92s funny now.\'94 \'93I wish you wouldn\'92t,\'94 she said. \'93I\'92m only talking,\'94 he said. \'93It\'92s much easier if I talk. But I don\'92t want to bother you.\'94 \'93You know it doesn\'92t bother me,\'94 she said. \'93It\'92s that I\'92ve gotten so very nervous not being able to do anything. I think we might make it as easy as we can until the plane comes.\'94 \'93Or until the plane doesn\'92t come.\'94 \'93Please tell me what I can do. There must be something I can do.\'94 \'93You can take the leg off and that might stop it, though I doubt it. Or you can shoot me. You\'92re a good shot now. I taught you to shoot, didn\'92t I?\'94 \'93Please don\'92t talk that way. Couldn\'92t I read to you?\'94 \'93Read what?\'94 \'93Anything in the book bag that we haven\'92t read.\'94 \'93I can\'92t listen to it,\'94 he said. \'93Talking is the easiest. We quarrel and that makes the time pass.\'94 \'93I don\'92t quarrel. I never want to quarrel. Let\'92s not quarrel any more. No matter how nervous we get. Maybe they will be back with another truck today. Maybe the plane will come.\'94 \'93I don\'92t want to move,\'94 the man said. \'93There is no sense in moving now except to make it easier for you.\'94 \'93That\'92s cowardly.\'94 \'93Can\'92t you let a man die as comfortably as he can without calling him names? What\'92s the use of slanging me?\'94 \'93You\'92re not going to die.\'94 \'93Don\'92t be silly. I\'92m dying now. Ask those bastards.\'94 He looked over to where the huge, filthy birds sat, their naked heads sunk in the hunched feathers. A fourth planed down, to run quick-legged and then waddle slowly toward the others. \'93They are around every camp. You never notice them. You can\'92t die if you don\'92t give up.\'94 \'93Where did you read that? You\'92re such a bloody fool.\'94 \'93You might think about some one else.\'94 \'93For Christ\'92s sake,\'94 he said, \'93that\'92s been my trade.\'94 He lay then and was quiet for a while and looked across the heat shimmer of the plain to the edge of the bush. There were a few Tommies that showed minute and white against the yellow and, far off, he saw a herd of zebra, white against the green of the bush. This was a pleasant camp under big trees against a hill, with good water, and close by, a nearly dry water hole where sand grouse flighted in the mornings. \'93Wouldn\'92t you like me to read?\'94 she asked. She was sitting on a canvas chair beside his cot. \'93There\'92s a breeze coming up.\'94 \'93No thanks.\'94 \'93Maybe the truck will come.\'94 \'93I don\'92t give a damn about the truck.\'94 \'93I do.\'94 \'93You give a damn about so many things that I don\'92t.\'94 \'93Not so many, Harry.\'94 \'93What about a drink?\'94 \'93It\'92s supposed to be bad for you. It said in Black\'92s to avoid all alcohol. You shouldn\'92t drink.\'94 \'93Molo!\'94 he shouted. \'93Yes Bwana.\'94 \'93Bring whiskey-soda.\'94 \'93Yes Bwana.\'94 \'93You shouldn\'92t,\'94 she said. \'93That\'92s what I mean by giving up. It says it\'92s bad for you. I know it\'92s bad for you.\'94 \'93No,\'94 he said. \'93It\'92s good for me.\'94 So now it was all over, he thought. So now he would never have a chance to finish it. So this was the way it ended, in a bickering over a drink. Since the gangrene started in his right leg he had no pain and with the pain the horror had gone and all he felt now was a great tiredness and anger that this was the end of it. For this, that now was coming, he had very little curiosity. For years it had obsessed him; but now it meant nothing in itself. It was strange how easy being tired enough made it. Now he would never write the things that he had saved to write until he knew enough to write them well. Well, he would not have to fail at trying to write them either. Maybe you could never write them, and that was why you put them off and delayed the starting. Well he would never know, now. \'93I wish we\'92d never come,\'94 the woman said. She was looking at him, holding the glass and biting her lip. \'93You never would have gotten anything like this in Paris. You always said you loved Paris. We could have stayed in Paris or gone anywhere. I\'92d have gone anywhere. I said I\'92d go anywhere you wanted. If you wanted to shoot we could have gone shooting in Hungary and been comfortable.\'94 \'93Your bloody money,\'94 he said. \'93That\'92s not fair,\'94 she said. \'93It was always yours as much as mine. I left everything and I went wherever you wanted to go and I\'92ve done what you wanted to do. But I wish we\'92d never come here.\'94 \'93You said you loved it.\'94 \'93I did when you were all right. But now I hate it. I don\'92t see why that had to happen to your leg. What have we done to have that happen to us?\'94 \'93I suppose what I did was to forget to put iodine on it when I first scratched it. Then I didn\'92t pay any attention to it because I never infect. Then, later, when it got bad, it was probably using that weak carbolic solution when the other antiseptics ran out that paralyzed the minute blood vessels and started the gangrene.\'94 He looked at her, \'93What else?\'94 \'93I don\'92t mean that.\'94 \'93If we would have hired a good mechanic instead of a half-baked Kikuyu driver, he would have checked the oil and never burned out that bearing in the truck.\'94 \'93I don\'92t mean that.\'94 \'93If you hadn\'92t left your own people, your goddamned Old Westbury, Saratoga, Palm Beach people to take me on\'97\'94 \'93Why, I loved you. That\'92s not fair. I love you now. I\'92ll always love you. Don\'92t you love me?\'94 \'93No,\'94 said the man. \'93I don\'92t think so. I never have.\'94 \'93Harry, what are you saying? You\'92re out of your head.\'94 \'93No. I haven\'92t any head to go out of.\'94 \'93Don\'92t drink that,\'94 she said. \'93Darling, please don\'92t drink that. We have to do everything we can.\'94 \'93You do it,\'94 he said. \'93I\'92m tired.\'94 Now in his mind he saw a railway station at Karagatch and he was standing with his pack and that was the headlight of the Simplon-Orient cutting the dark now and he was leaving Thrace then after the retreat. That was one of the things he had saved to write, with, in the morning at breakfast, looking out the window and seeing snow on the mountains in Bulgaria and Nansen\'92s Secretary asking the old man if it were snow and the old man looking at it and saying, No, that\'92s not snow. It\'92s too early for snow. And the Secretary repeating to the other girls, No, you see. It\'92s not snow and them all saying, It\'92s not snow we were mistaken. But it was the snow all right and he sent them on into it when he evolved exchange of populations. And it was snow they tramped along in until they died that winter. It was snow too that fell all Christmas week that year up in the Gauertal, that year they lived in the woodcutter\'92s house with the big square porcelain stove that filled half the room, and they slept on mattresses filled with beech leaves, the time the deserter came with his feet bloody in the snow. He said the police were right behind him and they gave him woolen socks and held the gendarmes talking until the tracks had drifted over. In Schrunz, on Christmas day, the snow was so bright it hurt your eyes when you looked out from the Weinstube and saw every one coming home from church. That was where they walked up the sleigh-smoothed urine-yellowed road along the river with the steep pine hills, skis heavy on the shoulder, and where they ran that great run down the glacier above the Madlener-haus, the snow as smooth to see as cake frosting and as light as powder and he remembered the noiseless rush the speed made as you dropped down like a bird. They were snow-bound a week in the Madlener-haus that time in the blizzard playing cards in the smoke by the lantern light and the stakes were higher all the time as Herr Lent lost more. Finally he lost it all. Everything, the Skischule money and all the season\'92s profit and then his capital. He could see him with his long nose, picking up the cards and then opening, \'93Sans Voir.\'94 There was always gambling then. When there was no snow you gambled and when there was too much you gambled. He thought of all the time in his life he had spent gambling. But he had never written a line of that, nor of that cold, bright Christmas day with the mountains showing across the plain that Barker had flown across the lines to bomb the Austrian of icers\'92 leave train, machine-gunning them as they scattered and ran. He remembered Barker afterwards coming into the mess and starting to tell about it. And how quiet it got and then somebody saying, \'93You bloody murderous bastard.\'94 Those were the same Austrians they killed then that he skied with later. No not the same. Hans, that he skied with all that year, had been in the Kaiser-J\'e4gers and when they went hunting hares together up the little valley above the saw-mill they had talked of the fighting on Pasubio and of the attack on Perticara and Asalone and he had never written a word of that. Nor of Monte Corona, nor the Sette Communi, nor of Arsiero. How many winters had he lived in the Vorarlberg and the Arlberg? It was four and then he remembered the man who had the fox to sell when they had walked into Bludenz, that time to buy presents, and the cherry-pit taste of good kirsch, the fast-slipping rush of running powder-snow on crust, singing \'93Hi! Ho! said Rolly!\'94 as you ran down the last stretch to the steep drop, taking it straight, then running the orchard in three turns and out across the ditch and onto the icy road behind the inn. Knocking your bindings loose, kicking the skis free and leaning them up against the wooden wall of the inn, the lamplight coming from the window, where inside, in the smoky, new-wine smelling warmth, they were playing the accordion. \'93Where did we stay in Paris?\'94 he asked the woman who was sitting by him in a canvas chair, now, in Africa. \'93At the Crillon. You know that.\'94 \'93Why do I know that?\'94 \'93That\'92s where we always stayed.\'94 \'93No. Not always.\'94 \'93There and at the Pavillion Henri-Quatre in St. Germain. You said you loved it there.\'94 \'93Love is a dunghill,\'94 said Harry. \'93And I\'92m the cock that gets on it to crow.\'94 \'93If you have to go away,\'94 she said, \'93is it absolutely necessary to kill off everything you leave behind? I mean do you have to take away everything? Do you have to kill your horse, and your wife and burn your saddle and your armour?\'94 \'93Yes,\'94 he said. \'93Your damned money was my armour. My Swift and my Armour.\'94 \'93Don\'92t.\'94 \'93All right. I\'92ll stop that. I don\'92t want to hurt you.\'94 \'93It\'92s a little bit late now.\'94 \'93All right then. I\'92ll go on hurting you. It\'92s more amusing. The only thing I ever really liked to do with you I can\'92t do now.\'94 \'93No, that\'92s not true. You liked to do many things and everything you wanted to do I did.\'94 \'93Oh, for Christ sake stop bragging, will you?\'94 He looked at her and saw her crying. \'93Listen,\'94 he said. \'93Do you think that it is fun to do this? I don\'92t know why I\'92m doing it. It\'92s trying to kill to keep yourself alive, I imagine. I was all right when we started talking. I didn\'92t mean to start this, and now I\'92m crazy as a coot and being as cruel to you as I can be. Don\'92t pay any attention, darling, to what I say. I love you, really. You know I love you. I\'92ve never loved any one else the way I love you.\'94 He slipped into the familiar lie he made his bread and butter by. \'93You\'92re sweet to me.\'94 \'93You bitch,\'94 he said. \'93You rich bitch. That\'92s poetry. I\'92m full of poetry now. Rot and poetry. Rotten poetry.\'94 \'93Stop it. Harry, why do you have to turn into a devil now?\'94 \'93I don\'92t like to leave anything,\'94 the man said. \'93I don\'92t like to leave things behind.\'94 It was evening now and he had been asleep. The sun was gone behind the hill and there was a shadow all across the plain and the small animals were feeding close to camp; quick dropping heads and switching tails, he watched them keeping well out away from the bush now. The birds no longer waited on the ground. They were all perched heavily in a tree. There were many more of them. His personal boy was sitting by the bed. \'93Memsahib\'92s gone to shoot,\'94 the boy said. \'93Does Bwana want?\'94 \'93Nothing.\'94 She had gone to kill a piece of meat and, knowing how he liked to watch the game, she had gone well away so she would not disturb this little pocket of the plain that he could see. She was always thoughtful, he thought. On anything she knew about, or had read, or that she had ever heard. It was not her fault that when he went to her he was already over. How could a woman know that you meant nothing that you said; that you spoke only from habit and to be comfortable? After he no longer meant what he said, his lies were more successful with women than when he had told them the truth. It was not so much that he lied as that there was no truth to tell. He had had his life and it was over and then he went on living it again with different people and more money, with the best of the same places, and some new ones. You kept from thinking and it was all marvellous. You were equipped with good insides so that you did not go to pieces that way, the way most of them had, and you made an attitude that you cared nothing for the work you used to do, now that you could no longer do it. But, in yourself, you said that you would write about these people; about the very rich; that you were really not of them but a spy in their country; that you would leave it and write of it and for once it would be written by some one who knew what he was writing of. But he would never do it, because each day of not writing, of comfort, of being that which he despised, dulled his ability and softened his will to work so that, finally, he did no work at all. The people he knew now were all much more comfortable when he did not work. Africa was where he had been happiest in the good time of his life, so he had come out here to start again. They had made this safari with the minimum of comfort. There was no hardship; but there was no luxury and he had thought that he could get back into training that way. That in some way he could work the fat off his soul the way a fighter went into the mountains to work and train in order to bum it out of his body. She had liked it. She said she loved it. She loved anything that was exciting, that involved a change of scene, where there were new people and where things were pleasant. And he had felt the illusion of returning strength of will to work. Now if this was how it ended, and he knew it was, he must not turn like some snake biting itself because its back was broken. It wasn\'92t this woman\'92s fault. If it had not been she it would have been another. If he lived by a lie he should try to die by it. He heard a shot beyond the hill. She shot very well this good, this rich bitch, this kindly caretaker and destroyer of his talent. Nonsense. He had destroyed his talent himself. Why should he blame this woman because she kept him well? He had destroyed his talent by not using it, by betrayals of himself and what he believed in, by drinking so much that he blunted the edge of his perceptions, by laziness, by sloth, and by snobbery, by pride and by prejudice, by hook and by crook. What was this? A catalogue of old books? What was his talent anyway? It was a talent all right but instead of using it, he had traded on it. It was never what he had done, but always what he could do. And he had chosen to make his living with something else instead of a pen or a pencil. It was strange, too, wasn\'92t it, that when he fell in love with another woman, that woman should always have more money than the last one? But when he no longer was in love, when he was only lying, as to this woman, now, who had the most money of all, who had all the money there was, who had had a husband and children, who had taken lovers and been dissatisfied with them, and who loved him dearly as a writer, as a man, as a companion and as a proud possession; it was strange that when he did not love her at all and was lying, that he should be able to give her more for her money than when he had really loved. We must all be cut out for what we do, he thought. However you make your living is where your talent lies. He had sold vitality, in one form or another, all his life and when your affections are not too involved you give much better value for the money. He had found that out but he would never write that, now, either. No, he would not write that, although it was well worth writing. Now she came in sight, walking across the open toward the camp. She was wearing jodphurs and carrying her rifle. The two boys had a Tommie slung and they were coming along behind her. She was still a good-looking woman, he thought, and she had a pleasant body. She had a great talent and appreciation for the bed, she was not pretty, but he liked her face, she read enormously, liked to ride and shoot and, certainly, she drank too much. Her husband had died when she was still a comparatively young woman and for a while she had devoted herself to her two just-grown children, who did not need her and were embarrassed at having her about, to her stable of horses, to books, and to bottles. She liked to read in the evening before dinner and she drank Scotch and soda while she read. By dinner she was fairly drunk and after a bottle of wine at dinner she was usually drunk enough to sleep. That was before the lovers. After she had the lovers she did not drink so much because she did not have to be drunk to sleep. But the lovers bored her. She had been married to a man who had never bored her and these people bored her very much. Then one of her two children was killed in a plane crash and after that was over she did not want the lovers, and drink being no an\'e6sthetic she had to make another life. Suddenly, she had been acutely frightened of being alone. But she wanted some one that she respected with her. It had begun very simply. She liked what he wrote and she had always envied the life he led. She thought he did exactly what he wanted to. The steps by which she had acquired him and the way in which she had finally fallen in love with him were all part of a regular progression in which she had built herself a new life and he had traded away what remained of his old life. He had traded it for security, for comfort too, there was no denying that, and for what else? He did not know. She would have bought him anything he wanted. He knew that. She was a damned nice woman too. He would as soon be in bed with her as any one; rather with her, because she was richer, because she was very pleasant and appreciative and because she never made scenes. And now this life that she had built again was coming to a term because he had not used iodine two weeks ago when a thorn had scratched his knee as they moved forward trying to photograph a herd of waterbuck standing, their heads up, peering while their nostrils searched the air, their ears spread wide to hear the first noise that would send them rushing into the bush. They had bolted, too, before he got the picture. Here she came now. He turned his head on the cot to look toward her. \'93Hello,\'94 he said. \'93I shot a Tommy ram,\'94 she told him. \'93He\'92ll make you good broth and I\'92ll have them mash some potatoes with the Klim. How do you feel?\'94 \'93Much better.\'94 \'93Isn\'92t that lovely? You know I thought perhaps you would. You were sleeping when I left.\'94 \'93I had a good sleep. Did you walk far?\'94 \'93No. Just around behind the hill. I made quite a good shot on the Tommy.\'94 \'93You shoot marvellously, you know.\'94 \'93I love it. I\'92ve loved Africa. Really. If you\'92re all right it\'92s the most fun that I\'92ve ever had. You don\'92t know the fun it\'92s been to shoot with you. I\'92ve loved the country.\'94 \'93I love it too.\'94 \'93Darling, you don\'92t know how marvellous it is to see you feeling better. I couldn\'92t stand it when you felt that way. You won\'92t talk to me like that again, will you? Promise me?\'94 \'93No,\'94 he said. \'93I don\'92t remember what I said.\'94 \'93You don\'92t have to destroy me. Do you? I\'92m only a middle-aged woman who loves you and wants to do what you want to do. I\'92ve been destroyed two or three times already. You wouldn\'92t want to destroy me again, would you?\'94 \'93I\'92d like to destroy you a few times in bed,\'94 he said. \'93Yes. That\'92s the good destruction. That\'92s the way we\'92re made to be destroyed. The plane will be here tomorrow.\'94 \'93How do you know?\'94 \'93I\'92m sure. It\'92s bound to come. The boys have the wood all ready and the grass to make the smudge. I went down and looked at it again today. There\'92s plenty of room to land and we have the smudges ready at both ends.\'94 \'93What makes you think it will come tomorrow?\'94 \'93I\'92m sure it will. It\'92s overdue now. Then, in town, they will fix up your leg and then we will have some good destruction. Not that dreadful talking kind.\'94 \'93Should we have a drink? The sun is down.\'94 \'93Do you think you should?\'94 \'93I\'92m having one.\'94 \'93We\'92ll have one together. Molo, letti dui whiskey-soda!\'94 she called. \'93You\'92d better put on your mosquito boots,\'94 he told her. \'93I\'92ll wait till I bathe \'85\'94 While it grew dark they drank and just before it was dark and there was no longer enough light to shoot, a hyena crossed the open on his way around the hill. \'93That bastard crosses there every night,\'94 the man said. \'93Every night for two weeks.\'94 \'93He\'92s the one makes the noise at night. I don\'92t mind it. They\'92re a filthy animal though.\'94 Drinking together, with no pain now except the discomfort of lying in the one position, the boys lighting a fire, its shadow jumping on the tents, he could feel the return of acquiescence in this life of pleasant surrender. She was very good to him. He had been cruel and unjust in the afternoon. She was a fine woman, marvellous really. And just then it occurred to him that he was going to die. It came with a rush; not as a rush of water nor of wind; but of a sudden evil-smelling emptiness and the odd thing was that the hyena slipped lightly along the edge of it. \'93What is it, Harry?\'94 she asked him. \'93Nothing,\'94 he said. \'93You had better move over to the other side. To windward.\'94 \'93Did Molo change the dressing?\'94 \'93Yes. I\'92m just using the boric now.\'94 \'93How do you feel?\'94 \'93A little wobbly.\'94 \'93I\'92m going in to bathe,\'94 she said. \'93I\'92ll be right out. I\'92ll eat with you and then we\'92ll put the cot in.\'94 So, he said to himself, we did well to stop the quarrelling. He had never quarrelled much with this woman, while with the women that he loved he had quarrelled so much they had finally, always, with the corrosion of the quarrelling, killed what they had together. He had loved too much, demanded too much, and he wore it all out. He thought about alone in Constantinople that time, having quarrelled in Paris before he had gone out. He had whored the whole time and then, when that was over, and he had failed to kill his loneliness, but only made it worse, he had written her, the first one, the one who left him, a letter telling her how he had never been able to kill it. \'85 How when he thought he saw her outside the Regence one time it made him go all faint and sick inside, and that he would follow a woman who looked like her in some way, along the Boulevard, afraid to see it was not she, afraid to lose the feeling it gave him. How every one he had slept with had only made him miss her more. How what she had done could never matter since he knew he could not cure himself of loving her. He wrote this letter at the Club, cold sober, and mailed it to New York asking her to write him at the of ice in Paris. That seemed safe. And that night missing her so much it made him feel hollow sick inside, he wandered up past Maxim\'92s, picked a girl up and took her out to supper. He had gone to a place to dance with her afterward, she danced badly, and left her for a hot Armenian slut, that swung her belly against him so it almost scalded. He took her away from a British gunner subaltern after a row. The gunner asked him outside and they fought in the street on the cobbles in the dark. He\'92d hit him twice, hard, on the side of the jaw and when he didn\'92t go down he knew he was in for a fight. The gunner hit him in the body, then beside his eye. He swung with his left again and landed and the gunner fell on him and grabbed his coat and tore the sleeve of and he clubbed him twice behind the ear and then smashed him with his right as he pushed him away. When the gunner went down his head hit first and he ran with the girl because they heard the M.P.\'92s coming. They got into a taxi and drove out to Rimmily Hissa along the Bosphorus, and around, and back in the cool night and went to bed and she felt as over-ripe as she looked but smooth, rose-petal, syrupy, smooth-bellied, big-breasted and needed no pillow under her buttocks, and he left her before she was awake looking blousy enough in the first daylight and turned up at the Pera Palace with a black eye, carrying his coat because one sleeve was missing. That same night he left for Anatolia and he remembered, later on that trip, riding all day through fields of the poppies that they raised for opium and how strange it made you feel, finally, and all the distances seemed wrong, to where they had made the attack with the newly arrived Constantine of icers, that did not know a god-damned thing, and the artillery had fired into the troops and the British observer had cried like a child. That was the day he\'92d first seen dead men wearing white ballet skirts and upturned shoes with pompons on them. The Turks had come steadily and lumpily and he had seen the skirted men running and the of icers shooting into them and running then themselves and he and the British observer had run too until his lungs ached and his mouth was full of the taste of pennies and they stopped behind some rocks and there were the Turks coming as lumpily as ever. Later he had seen the things that he could never think of and later still he had seen much worse. So when he got back to Paris that time he could not talk about it or stand to have it mentioned. And there in the caf\'e9 as he passed was that American poet with a pile of saucers in front of him and a stupid look on his potato face talking about the Dada movement with a Roumanian who said his name was Tristan Tzara, who always wore a monocle and had a headache, and, back at the apartment with his wife that now he loved again, the quarrel all over, the madness all over, glad to be home, the of ice sent his mail up to the flat. So then the letter in answer to the one he\'92d written came in on a platter one morning and when he saw the handwriting he went cold all over and tried to slip the letter underneath another. But his wife said, \'93Who is that letter from, dear?\'94 and that was the end of the beginning of that. He remembered the good times with them all, and the quarrels. They always picked the finest places to have the quarrels. And why had they always quarrelled when he was feeling best? He had never written any of that because, at first, he never wanted to hurt any one and then it seemed as though there was enough to write without it. But he had always thought that he would write it finally. There was so much to write. He had seen the world change; not just the events; although he had seen many of them and had watched the people, but he had seen the subtler change and he could remember how the people were at dif erent times. He had been in it and he had watched it and it was his duty to write of it; but now he never would. \'93How do you feel?\'94 she said. She had come out from the tent now after her bath. \'93All right.\'94 \'93Could you eat now?\'94 He saw Molo behind her with the folding table and the other boy with the dishes. \'93I want to write,\'94 he said. \'93You ought to take some broth to keep your strength up.\'94 \'93I\'92m going to die tonight,\'94 he said. \'93I don\'92t need my strength up.\'94 \'93Don\'92t be melodramatic, Harry, please,\'94 she said. \'93Why don\'92t you use your nose? I\'92m rotted half way up my thigh now. What the hell should I fool with broth for? Molo bring whiskey-soda.\'94 \'93Please take the broth,\'94 she said gently. \'93All right.\'94 The broth was too hot. He had to hold it in the cup until it cooled enough to take it and then he just got it down without gagging. \'93You\'92re a fine woman,\'94 he said. \'93Don\'92t pay any attention to me.\'94 She looked at him with her well-known, well-loved face from Spur and Town & Country, only a little the worse for drink, only a little the worse for bed, but Town & Country never showed those good breasts and those useful thighs and those lightly small-of-back-caressing hands, and as he looked and saw her well-known pleasant smile, he felt death come again. This time there was no rush. It was a puff, as of a wind that makes a candle flicker and the flame go tall. \'93They can bring my net out later and hang it from the tree and build the fire up. I\'92m not going in the tent tonight. It\'92s not worth moving. It\'92s a clear night. There won\'92t be any rain.\'94 So this was how you died, in whispers that you did not hear. Well, there would be no more quarrelling. He could promise that. The one experience that he had never had he was not going to spoil now. He probably would. You spoiled everything. But perhaps he wouldn\'92t. \'93You can\'92t take dictation, can you?\'94 \'93I never learned,\'94 she told him. \'93That\'92s all right.\'94 There wasn\'92t time, of course, although it seemed as though it telescoped so that you might put it all into one paragraph if you could get it right. There was a log house, chinked white with mortar, on a hill above the lake. There was a bell on a pole by the door to call the people in to meals. Behind the house were fields and behind the fields was the timber. A line of lombardy poplars ran from the house to the dock. Other poplars ran along the point. A road went up to the hills along the edge of the timber and along that road he picked blackberries. Then that log house was burned down and all the guns that had been on deer foot racks above the open fire place were burned and afterwards their barrels, with the lead melted in the magazines, and the stocks burned away, lay out on the heap of ashes that were used to make lye for the big iron soap kettles, and you asked Grandfather if you could have them to play with, and he said, no. You see they were his guns still and he never bought any others. Nor did he hunt any more. The house was rebuilt in the same place out of lumber now and painted white and from its porch you saw the poplars and the lake beyond; but there were never any more guns. The barrels of the guns that had hung on the deer feet on the wall of the log house lay out there on the heap of ashes and no one ever touched them. In the Black Forest, after the war, we rented a trout stream and there were two ways to walk to it. One was down the valley from Triberg and around the valley road in the shade of the trees that bordered the white road, and then up a side road that went up through the hills past many small farms, with the big Schwarzwald houses, until that road crossed the stream. That was where our fishing began. The other way was to climb steeply up to the edge of the woods and then go across the top of the hills through the pine woods, and then out to the edge of a meadow and down across this meadow to the bridge. There were birches along the stream and it was not big, but narrow, clear and fast, with pools where it had cut under the roots of the birches. At the Hotel in Triberg the proprietor had a fine season. It was very pleasant and we were all great friends. The next year came the inflation and the money he had made the year before was not enough to buy supplies to open the hotel and he hanged himself. You could dictate that, but you could not dictate the Place Contrescarpe where the flower sellers dyed their flowers in the street and the dye ran over the paving where the autobus started and the old men and the women, always drunk on wine and bad marc; and the children with their noses running in the cold; the smell of dirty sweat and poverty and drunkenness at the Caf\'e9 des Amateurs and the whores at the Bal Musette they lived above. The concierge who entertained the trooper of the Garde Republicaine in her loge, his horse-hair-plumed helmet on a chair. The locataire across the hall whose husband was a bicycle racer and her joy that morning at the cr\'e9merie when she had opened L\'92Auto and seen where he placed third in Paris-Tours, his first big race. She had blushed and laughed and then gone upstairs crying with the yellow sporting paper in her hand. The husband of the woman who ran the Bal Musette drove a taxi and when he, Harry, had to take an early plane the husband knocked upon the door to wake him and they each drank a glass of white wine at the zinc of the bar before they started. He knew his neighbors in that quarter then because they all were poor. Around that Place there were two kinds; the drunkards and the sportifs. The drunkards killed their poverty that way; the sportifs took it out in exercise. They were the descendants of the Communards and it was no struggle for them to know their politics. They knew who had shot their fathers, their relatives, their brothers, and their friends when the Versailles troops came in and took the town after the Commune and executed any one they could catch with calloused hands, or who wore a cap, or carried any other sign he was a working man. And in that poverty, and in that quarter across the street from a Boucherie Chevaline and a wine cooperative he had written the start of all he was to do. There never was another part of Paris that he loved like that, the sprawling trees, the old white plastered houses painted brown below, the long green of the autobus in that round square, the purple flower dye upon the paving, the sudden drop down the hill of the rue Cardinal Lemoine to the River, and the other way the narrow crowded world of the rue Mouf etard. The street that ran up toward the Pantheon and the other that he always took with the bicycle, the only asphalted street in all that quarter, smooth under the tires, with the high narrow houses and the cheap tall hotel where Paul Verlaine had died. There were only two rooms in the apartments where they lived and he had a room on the top floor of that hotel that cost him sixty francs a month where he did his writing, and from it he could see the roofs and chimney pots and all the hills of Paris. From the apartment you could only see the wood and coal man\'92s place. He sold wine too, bad wine. The golden horse\'92s head outside the Boucherie Chevaline where the carcasses hung yellow gold and red in the open window, and the green painted co-operative where they bought their wine; good wine and cheap. The rest was plaster walls and the windows of the neighbors. The neighbors who, at night, when some one lay drunk in the street, moaning and groaning in that typical French ivresse that you were propaganded to believe did not exist, would open their windows and then the murmur of talk. \'93Where is the policeman? When you don\'92t want him the bugger is always there. He\'92s sleeping with some concierge. Get the Agent.\'94 Till some one threw a bucket of water from a window and the moaning stopped. \'93What\'92s that? Water. Ah, that\'92s intelligent.\'94 And the windows shutting. Marie, his femme de m\'e9nage, protesting against the eight-hour day saying, \'93If a husband works until six he gets only a little drunk on the way home and does not waste too much. If he works only until five he is drunk every night and one has no money. It is the wife of the working man who suf ers from this shortening of hours.\'94 \'93Wouldn\'92t you like some more broth?\'94 the woman asked him now. \'93No, thank you very much. It is awfully good.\'94 \'93Try just a little.\'94 \'93I would like a whiskey-soda.\'94 \'93It\'92s not good for you.\'94 \'93No. It\'92s bad for me. Cole Porter wrote the words and the music. This knowledge that you\'92re going mad for me.\'94 \'93You know I like you to drink.\'94 \'93Oh yes. Only it\'92s bad for me.\'94 When she goes, he thought, I\'92ll have all I want. Not all I want but all there is. Ayee he was tired. Too tired. He was going to sleep a little while. He lay still and death was not there. It must have gone around another street. It went in pairs, on bicycles, and moved absolutely silently on the pavements. No, he had never written about Paris. Not the Paris that he cared about. But what about the rest that he had never written? What about the ranch and the silvered gray of the sage brush, the quick, clear water in the irrigation ditches, and the heavy green of the alfalfa. The trail went up into the hills and the cattle in the summer were shy as deer. The bawling and the steady noise and slow moving mass raising a dust as you brought them down in the fall. And behind the mountains, the clear sharpness of the peak in the evening light and, riding down along the trail in the moonlight, bright across the valley. Now he remembered coming down through the timber in the dark holding the horse\'92s tail when you could not see and all the stories that he meant to write. About the half-wit chore boy who was left at the ranch that time and told not to let any one get any hay, and that old bastard from the Forks who had beaten the boy when he had worked for him stopping to get some feed. The boy refusing and the old man saying he would beat him again. The boy got the rifle from the kitchen and shot him when he tried to come into the barn and when they came back to the ranch he\'92d been dead a week, frozen in the corral, and the dogs had eaten part of him. But what was left you packed on a sled wrapped in a blanket and roped on and you got the boy to help you haul it, and the two of you took it out over the road on skis, and sixty miles down to town to turn the boy over. He having no idea that he would be arrested. Thinking he had done his duty and that you were his friend and he would be rewarded. He\'92d helped to haul the old man in so everybody could know how bad the old man had been and how he\'92d tried to steal some feed that didn\'92t belong to him, and when the sherif put the handcuf s on the boy he couldn\'92t believe it. Then he\'92d started to cry. That was one story he had saved to write. He knew at least twenty good stories from out there and he had never written one. Why? \'93You tell them why,\'94 he said. \'93Why what, dear?\'94 \'93Why nothing.\'94 She didn\'92t drink so much, now, since she had him. But if he lived he would never write about her, he knew that now. Nor about any of them. The rich were dull and they drank too much, or they played too much backgammon. They were dull and they were repetitious. He remembered poor Julian and his romantic awe of them and how he had started a story once that began, \'93The very rich are different from you and me.\'94 And how some one had said to Julian, Yes, they have more money. But that was not humorous to Julian. He thought they were a special glamourous race and when he found they weren\'92t it wrecked him just as much as any other thing that wrecked him. He had been contemptuous of those who wrecked. You did not have to like it because you understood it. He could beat anything, he thought, because no thing could hurt him if he did not care. All right. Now he would not care for death. One thing he had always dreaded was the pain. He could stand pain as well as any man, until it went on too long, and wore him out, but here he had something that had hurt frightfully and just when he had felt it breaking him, the pain had stopped. He remembered long ago when Williamson, the bombing of icer, had been hit by a stick bomb some one in a German patrol had thrown as he was coming in through the wire that night and, screaming, had begged every one to kill him. He was a fat man, very brave, and a good of icer, although addicted to fantastic shows. But that night he was caught in the wire, with a flare lighting him up and his bowels spilled out into the wire, so when they brought him in, alive, they had to cut him loose. Shoot me, Harry. For Christ sake shoot me. They had had an argument one time about our Lord never sending you anything you could not bear and some one\'92s theory had been that meant that at a certain time the pain passed you out automatically. But he had always remembered Williamson, that night. Nothing passed out Williamson until he gave him all his morphine tablets that he had always saved to use himself and then they did not work right away. Still this now, that he had, was very easy; and if it was no worse as it went on there was nothing to worry about. Except that he would rather be in better company. He thought a little about the company that he would like to have. No, he thought, when everything you do, you do too long, and do too late, you can\'92t expect to find the people still there. The people all are gone. The party\'92s over and you are with your hostess now. I\'92m getting as bored with dying as with everything else, he thought. \'93It\'92s a bore,\'94 he said out loud. \'93What is, my dear?\'94 \'93Anything you do too bloody long.\'94 He looked at her face between him and the fire. She was leaning back in the chair and the firelight shone on her pleasantly lined face and he could see that she was sleepy. He heard the hyena make a noise just outside the range of the fire. \'93I\'92ve been writing,\'94 he said. \'93But I got tired.\'94 \'93Do you think you will be able to sleep?\'94 \'93Pretty sure. Why don\'92t you turn in?\'94 \'93I like to sit here with you.\'94 \'93Do you feel anything strange?\'94 he asked her. \'93No. Just a little sleepy.\'94 \'93I do,\'94 he said. He had just felt death come by again. \'93You know the only thing I\'92ve never lost is curiosity,\'94 he said to her. \'93You\'92ve never lost anything. You\'92re the most complete man I\'92ve ever known.\'94 \'93Christ,\'94 he said. \'93How little a woman knows. What is that? Your intuition?\'94 Because, just then, death had come and rested its head on the foot of the cot and he could smell its breath. \'93Never believe any of that about a scythe and a skull,\'94 he told her. \'93It can be two bicycle policemen as easily, or be a bird. Or it can have a wide snout like a hyena.\'94 It had moved up on him now, but it had no shape any more. It simply occupied space. \'93Tell it to go away.\'94 It did not go away but moved a little closer. \'93You\'92ve got a hell of a breath,\'94 he told it. \'93You stinking bastard.\'94 It moved up closer to him still and now he could not speak to it, and when it saw he could not speak it came a little closer, and now he tried to send it away without speaking, but it moved in on him so its weight was all upon his chest, and while it crouched there and he could not move, or speak, he heard the woman say, \'93 Bwana is asleep now. Take the cot up very gently and carry it into the tent.\'94 He could not speak to tell her to make it go away and it crouched now, heavier, so he could not breathe. And then, while they lifted the cot, suddenly it was all right and the weight went from his chest. It was morning and had been morning for some time and he heard the plane. It showed very tiny and then made a wide circle and the boys ran out and lit the fires, using kerosene, and piled on grass so there were two big smudges at each end of the level place and the morning breeze blew them toward the camp and the plane circled twice more, low this time, and then glided down and levelled off and landed smoothly and, coming walking toward him, was old Compton in slacks, a tweed jacket and a brown felt hat. \'93What\'92s the matter, old cock?\'94 Compton said. \'93Bad leg,\'94 he told him. \'93Will you have some breakfast?\'94 \'93Thanks. I\'92ll just have some tea. It\'92s the Puss Moth you know. I won\'92t be able to take the Memsahib. There\'92s only room for one. Your lorry is on the way.\'94 Helen had taken Compton aside and was speaking to him. Compton came back more cheery than ever. \'93We\'92ll get you right in,\'94 he said. \'93I\'92ll be back for the Mem. Now I\'92m afraid I\'92ll have to stop at Arusha to refuel. We\'92d better get going.\'94 \'93What about the tea?\'94 \'93I don\'92t really care about it, you know.\'94 The boys had picked up the cot and carried it around the green tents and down along the rock and out onto the plain and along past the smudges that were burning brightly now, the grass all consumed, and the wind fanning the fire, to the little plane. It was difficult getting him in, but once in he lay back in the leather seat, and the leg was stuck straight out to one side of the seat where Compton sat. Compton started the motor and got in. He waved to Helen and to the boys and, as the clatter moved into the old familiar roar, they swung around with Compie watching for warthog holes and roared, bumping, along the stretch between the fires and with the last bump rose and he saw them all standing below, waving, and the camp beside the hill, flattening now, and the plain spreading, clumps of trees, and the bush flattening, while the game trails ran now smoothly to the dry waterholes, and there was a new water that he had never known of. The zebra, small rounded backs now, and the wildebeeste, big-headed dots seeming to climb as they moved in long fingers across the plain, now scattering as the shadow came toward them, they were tiny now, and the movement had no gallop, and the plain as far as you could see, gray-yellow now and ahead old Compie\'92s tweed back and the brown felt hat. Then they were over the first hills and the wildebeeste were trailing up them, and then they were over mountains with sudden depths of green-rising forest and the solid bamboo slopes, and then the heavy forest again, sculptured into peaks and hollows until they crossed, and hills sloped down and then another plain, hot now, and purple brown, bumpy with heat and Compie looking back to see how he was riding. Then there were other mountains dark ahead. And then instead of going on to Arusha they turned left, he evidently figured that they had the gas, and looking down he saw a pink sifting cloud, moving over the ground, and in the air, like the first snow in a blizzard, that comes from nowhere, and he knew the locusts were coming up from the South. Then they began to climb and they were going to the East it seemed, and then it darkened and they were in a storm, the rain so thick it seemed like flying through a waterfall, and then they were out and Compie turned his head and grinned and pointed and there, ahead, all he could see, as wide as all the world, great, high, and unbelievably white in the sun, was the square top of Kilimanjaro. And then he knew that there was where he was going. Just then the hyena stopped whimpering in the night and started to make a strange, human, almost crying sound. The woman heard it and stirred uneasily. She did not wake. In her dream she was at the house on Long Island and it was the night before her daughter\'92s d\'e9but. Somehow her father was there and he had been very rude. Then the noise the hyena made was so loud she woke and for a moment she did not know where she was and she was very afraid. Then she took the flashlight and shone it on the other cot that they had carried in after Harry had gone to sleep. She could see his bulk under the mosquito bar but somehow he had gotten his leg out and it hung down alongside the cot. The dressings had all come down and she could not look at it. \'93Molo,\'94 she called, \'93Molo! Molo!\'94 Then she said, \'93Harry, Harry!\'94 Then her voice rising, \'93Harry! Please. Oh Harry!\'94 There was no answer and she could not hear him breathing. Outside the tent the hyena made the same strange noise that had awakened her. But she did not hear him for the beating of her heart. Old Man at the Bridge AN OLD MAN WITH STEEL RIMMED SPECtacles and very dusty clothes sat by the side of the road. There was a pontoon bridge across the river and carts, trucks, and men, women and children were crossing it. The mule-drawn carts staggered up the steep bank from the bridge with soldiers helping push against the spokes of the wheels. The trucks ground up and away heading out of it all and the peasants plodded along in the ankle deep dust. But the old man sat there without moving. He was too tired to go any farther. It was my business to cross the bridge, explore the bridgehead beyond and find out to what point the enemy had advanced. I did this and returned over the bridge. There were not so many carts now and very few people on foot, but the old man was still there. \'93Where do you come from?\'94 I asked him. \'93From San Carlos,\'94 he said, and smiled. That was his native town and so it gave him pleasure to mention it and he smiled. \'93I was taking care of animals,\'94 he explained. \'93Oh,\'94 I said, not quite understanding. \'93Yes,\'94 he said, \'93I stayed, you see, taking care of animals. I was the last one to leave the town of San Carlos.\'94 He did not look like a shepherd nor a herdsman and I looked at his black dusty clothes and his gray dusty face and his steel rimmed spectacles and said, \'93What animals were they?\'94 \'93Various animals,\'94 he said, and shook his head. \'93I had to leave them.\'94 I was watching the bridge and the African looking country of the Ebro Delta and wondering how long now it would be before we would see the enemy, and listening all the while for the first noises that would signal that ever mysterious event called contact, and the old man still sat there. \'93What animals were they?\'94 I asked. \'93There were three animals altogether,\'94 he explained. \'93There were two goats and a cat and then there were four pairs of pigeons.\'94 \'93And you had to leave them?\'94 I asked. \'93Yes. Because of the artillery. The captain told me to go because of the artillery.\'94 \'93And you have no family?\'94 I asked, watching the far end of the bridge where a few last carts were hurrying down the slope of the bank. \'93No,\'94 he said, \'93only the animals I stated. The cat, of course, will be all right. A cat can look out for itself, but I cannot think what will become of the others.\'94 \'93What politics have you?\'94 I asked. \'93I am without politics,\'94 he said. \'93I am seventy-six years old. I have come twelve kilometers now and I think now I can go no further.\'94 \'93This is not a good place to stop,\'94 I said. \'93If you can make it, there are trucks up the road where it forks for Tortosa.\'94 \'93I will wait a while,\'94 he said, \'93and then I will go. Where do the trucks go?\'94 \'93Towards Barcelona,\'94 I told him. \'93I know no one in that direction,\'94 he said, \'93but thank you very much. Thank you again very much.\'94 He looked at me very blankly and tiredly, then said, having to share his worry with some one, \'93The cat will be all right, I am sure. There is no need to be unquiet about the cat. But the others. Now what do you think about the others?\'94 \'93Why they\'92ll probably come through it all right.\'94 \'93You think so?\'94 \'93Why not,\'94 I said, watching the far bank where now there were no carts. \'93But what will they do under the artillery when I was told to leave because of the artillery?\'94 \'93Did you leave the dove cage unlocked?\'94 I asked. \'93Yes.\'94 \'93Then they\'92ll fly.\'94 \'93Yes, certainly they\'92ll fly. But the others. It\'92s better not to think about the others,\'94 he said. \'93If you are rested I would go,\'94 I urged. \'93Get up and try to walk now.\'94 \'93Thank you,\'94 he said and got to his feet, swayed from side to side and then sat down backwards in the dust. \'93I was taking care of animals,\'94 he said dully, but no longer to me. \'93I was only taking care of animals.\'94 There was nothing to do about him. It was Easter Sunday and the Fascists were advancing toward the Ebro. It was a gray overcast day with a low ceiling so their planes were not up. That and the fact that cats know how to look after themselves was all the good luck that old man would ever have. Up in Michigan JIM GILMORE CAME TO HORTONS BAY from Canada. He bought the blacksmith shop from old man Horton. Jim was short and dark with big mustaches and big hands. He was a good horseshoer and did not look much like a blacksmith even with his leather apron on. He lived upstairs above the blacksmith shop and took his meals at D. J. Smith\'92s. Liz Coates worked for Smith\'92s. Mrs. Smith, who was a very large clean woman, said Liz Coates was the neatest girl she\'92d ever seen. Liz had good legs and always wore clean gingham aprons and Jim noticed that her hair was always neat behind. He liked her face because it was so jolly but he never thought about her. Liz liked Jim very much. She liked it the way he walked over from the shop and often went to the kitchen door to watch for him to start down the road. She liked it about his mustache. She liked it about how white his teeth were when he smiled. She liked it very much that he didn\'92t look like a blacksmith. She liked it how much D. J. Smith and Mrs. Smith liked Jim. One day she found that she liked it the way the hair was black on his arms and how white they were above the tanned line when he washed up in the washbasin outside the house. Liking that made her feel funny. Hortons Bay, the town, was only five houses on the main road between Boyne City and Charlevoix. There was the general store and post office with a high false front and maybe a wagon hitched out in front, Smith\'92s house, Stroud\'92s house, Dillworth\'92s house, Horton\'92s house and Van Hoosen\'92s house. The houses were in a big grove of elm trees and the road was very sandy. There was farming country and timber each way up the road. Up the road a ways was the Methodist church and down the road the other direction was the township school. The blacksmith shop was painted red and faced the school. A steep sandy road ran down the hill to the bay through the timber. From Smith\'92s back door you could look out across the woods that ran down to the lake and across the bay. It was very beautiful in the spring and summer, the bay blue and bright and usually whitecaps on the lake out beyond the point from the breeze blowing from Charlevoix and Lake Michigan. From Smith\'92s back door Liz could see ore barges way out in the lake going toward Boyne City. When she looked at them they didn\'92t seem to be moving at all but if she went in and dried some more dishes and then came out again they would be out of sight beyond the point. All the time now Liz was thinking about Jim Gilmore. He didn\'92t seem to notice her much. He talked about the shop to D. J. Smith and about the Republican Party and about James G. Blaine. In the evenings he read The Toledo Blade and the Grand Rapids paper by the lamp in the front room or went out spearing fish in the bay with a jacklight with D. J. Smith. In the fall he and Smith and Charley Wyman took a wagon and tent, grub, axes, their rifles and two dogs and went on a trip to the pine plains beyond Vanderbilt deer hunting. Liz and Mrs. Smith were cooking for four days for them before they started. Liz wanted to make something special for Jim to take but she didn\'92t finally because she was afraid to ask Mrs. Smith for the eggs and flour and afraid if she bought them Mrs. Smith would catch her cooking. It would have been all right with Mrs. Smith but Liz was afraid. All the time Jim was gone on the deer hunting trip Liz thought about him. It was awful while he was gone. She couldn\'92t sleep well from thinking about him but she discovered it was fun to think about him too. If she let herself go it was better. The night before they were to come back she didn\'92t sleep at all, that is she didn\'92t think she slept because it was all mixed up in a dream about not sleeping and really not sleeping. When she saw the wagon coming down the road she felt weak and sick sort of inside. She couldn\'92t wait till she saw Jim and it seemed as though everything would be all right when he came. The wagon stopped outside under the big elm and Mrs. Smith and Liz went out. All the men had beards and there were three deer in the back of the wagon, their thin legs sticking stiff over the edge of the wagon box. Mrs. Smith kissed D. J. and he hugged her. Jim said \'93Hello, Liz,\'94 and grinned. Liz hadn\'92t known just what would happen when Jim got back but she was sure it would be something. Nothing had happened. The men were just home, that was all. Jim pulled the burlap sacks off the deer and Liz looked at them. One was a big buck. It was stiff and hard to lift out of the wagon. \'93Did you shoot it, Jim?\'94 Liz asked. \'93Yeah. Ain\'92t it a beauty?\'94 Jim got it onto his back to carry to the smokehouse. That night Charley Wyman stayed to supper at Smith\'92s. It was too late to get back to Charlevoix. The men washed up and waited in the front room for supper. \'93Ain\'92t there something left in that crock, Jimmy?\'94 D. J. Smith asked, and Jim went out to the wagon in the barn and fetched in the jug of whiskey the men had taken hunting with them. It was a four-gallon jug and there was quite a little slopped back and forth in the bottom. Jim took a long pull on his way back to the house. It was hard to lift such a big jug up to drink out of it. Some of the whiskey ran down on his shirt front. The two men smiled when Jim came in with the jug. D. J. Smith sent for glasses and Liz brought them. D. J. poured out three big shots. \'93Well, here\'92s looking at you, D. J.,\'94 said Charley Wyman. \'93That damn big buck, Jimmy,\'94 said D. J. \'93Here\'92s all the ones we missed, D. J.,\'94 said Jim, and downed his liquor. \'93Tastes good to a man.\'94 \'93Nothing like it this time of year for what ails you.\'94 \'93How about another, boys?\'94 \'93Here\'92s how, D. J.\'94 \'93Down the creek, boys.\'94 \'93Here\'92s to next year.\'94 Jim began to feel great. He loved the taste and the feel of whiskey. He was glad to be back to a comfortable bed and warm food and the shop. He had another drink. The men came in to supper feeling hilarious but acting very respectable. Liz sat at the table after she put on the food and ate with the family. It was a good dinner. The men ate seriously. After supper they went into the front room again and Liz cleaned off with Mrs. Smith. Then Mrs. Smith went upstairs and pretty soon Smith came out and went upstairs too. Jim and Charley were still in the front room. Liz was sitting in the kitchen next to the stove pretending to read a book and thinking about Jim. She didn\'92t want to go to bed yet because she knew Jim would be coming out and she wanted to see him as he went out so she could take the way he looked up to bed with her. She was thinking about him hard and then Jim came out. His eyes were shining and his hair was a little rumpled. Liz looked down at her book. Jim came over back of her chair and stood there and she could feel him breathing and then he put his arms around her. Her breasts felt plump and firm and the nipples were erect under his hands. Liz was terribly frightened, no one had ever touched her, but she thought, \'93He\'92s come to me finally. He\'92s really come.\'94 She held herself stiff because she was so frightened and did not know anything else to do and then Jim held her tight against the chair and kissed her. It was such a sharp, aching, hurting feeling that she thought she couldn\'92t stand it. She felt Jim right through the back of the chair and she couldn\'92t stand it and then something clicked inside of her and the feeling was warmer and softer. Jim held her tight hard against the chair and she wanted it now and Jim whispered, \'93Come on for a walk.\'94 Liz took her coat off the peg on the kitchen wall and they went out the door. Jim had his arm around her and every little way they stopped and pressed against each other and Jim kissed her. There was no moon and they walked ankle-deep in the sandy road through the trees down to the dock and the warehouse on the bay. The water was lapping in the piles and the point was dark across the bay. It was cold but Liz was hot all over from being with Jim. They sat down in the shelter of the warehouse and Jim pulled Liz close to him. She was frightened. One of Jim\'92s hands went inside her dress and stroked over her breast and the other hand was in her lap. She was very frightened and didn\'92t know how he was going to go about things but she snuggled close to him. Then the hand that felt so big in her lap went away and was on her leg and started to move up it. \'93Don\'92t, Jim,\'94 Liz said. Jim slid the hand further up. \'93You mustn\'92t, Jim. You mustn\'92t.\'94 Neither Jim nor Jim\'92s big hand paid any attention to her. The boards were hard. Jim had her dress up and was trying to do something to her. She was frightened but she wanted it. She had to have it but it frightened her. \'93You mustn\'92t do it, Jim. You mustn\'92t.\'94 \'93I got to. I\'92m going to. You know we got to.\'94 \'93No we haven\'92t, Jim. We ain\'92t got to. Oh, it isn\'92t right. Oh, it\'92s so big and it hurts so. You can\'92t. Oh, Jim. Jim. Oh.\'94 The hemlock planks of the dock were hard and splintery and cold and Jim was heavy on her and he had hurt her. Liz pushed him, she was so uncomfortable and cramped. Jim was asleep. He wouldn\'92t move. She worked out from under him and sat up and straightened her skirt and coat and tried to do something with her hair. Jim was sleeping with his mouth a little open. Liz leaned over and kissed him on the cheek. He was still asleep. She lifted his head a little and shook it. He rolled his head over and swallowed. Liz started to cry. She walked over to the edge of the dock and looked down to the water. There was a mist coming up from the bay. She was cold and miserable and everything felt gone. She walked back to where Jim was lying and shook him once more to make sure. She was crying. \'93Jim,\'94 she said, \'93Jim. Please, Jim.\'94 Jim stirred and curled a little tighter. Liz took off her coat and leaned over and covered him with it. She tucked it around him neatly and carefully. Then she walked across the dock and up the steep sandy road to go to bed. A cold mist was coming up through the woods from the bay. On the Quai at Smyrna THE STRANGE THING WAS, HE SAID, HOW they screamed every night at midnight. I do not know why they screamed at that time. We were in the harbor and they were all on the pier and at midnight they started screaming. We used to turn the searchlight on them to quiet them. That always did the trick. We\'92d run the searchlight up and down over them two or three times and they stopped it. One time I was senior officer on the pier and a Turkish officer came up to me in a frightful rage because one of our sailors had been most insulting to him. So I told him the fellow would be sent on ship and be most severely punished. I asked him to point him out. So he pointed out a gunner\'92s mate, most inoffensive chap. Said he\'92d been most frightfully and repeatedly insulting; talking to me through an interpreter. I couldn\'92t imagine how the gunner\'92s mate knew enough Turkish to be insulting. I called him over and said, \'93And just in case you should have spoken to any Turkish officers.\'94 \'93I haven\'92t spoken to any of them, sir.\'94 \'93I\'92m quite sure of it,\'94 I said, \'93but you\'92d best go on board ship and not come ashore again for the rest of the day.\'94 Then I told the Turk the man was being sent on board ship and would be most severely dealt with. Oh most rigorously. He felt topping about it. Great friends we were. The worst, he said, were the women with dead babies. You couldn\'92t get the women to give up their dead babies. They\'92d have babies dead for six days. Wouldn\'92t give them up. Nothing you could do about it. Had to take them away finally. Then there was an old lady, most extraordinary case. I told it to a doctor and he said I was lying. We were clearing them off the pier, had to clear off the dead ones, and this old woman was lying on a sort of litter. They said, \'93Will you have a look at her, sir?\'94 So I had a look at her and just then she died and went absolutely stiff. Her legs drew up and she drew up from the waist and went quite rigid. Exactly as though she had been dead over night. She was quite dead and absolutely rigid. I told a medical chap about it and he told me it was impossible. They were all out there on the pier and it wasn\'92t at all like an earthquake or that sort of thing because they never knew about the Turk. They never knew what the old Turk would do. You remember when they ordered us not to come in to take off any more? I had the wind up when we came in that morning. He had any amount of batteries and could have blown us clean out of the water. We were going to come in, run close along the pier, let go the front and rear anchors and then shell the Turkish quarter of the town. They would have blown us out of water but we would have blown the town simply to hell. They just fired a few blank charges at us as we came in. Kemal came down and sacked the Turkish commander. For exceeding his authority or some such thing. He got a bit above himself. It would have been the hell of a mess. You remember the harbor. There were plenty of nice things floating around in it. That was the only time in my life I got so I dreamed about things. You didn\'92t mind the women who were having babies as you did those with the dead ones. They had them all right. Surprising how few of them died. You just covered them over with something and let them go to it. They\'92d always pick out the darkest place in the hold to have them. None of them minded anything once they got off the pier. The Greeks were nice chaps too. When they evacuated they had all their baggage animals they couldn\'92t take off with them so they just broke their forelegs and dumped them into the shallow water. All those mules with their forelegs broken pushed over into the shallow water. It was all a pleasant business. My word yes a most pleasant business. CHAPTER I Everybody was drunk. The whole battery was drunk going along the road in the dark. We were going to the Champagne. The lieutenant kept riding his horse out into the fields and saying to him, \'93I\'92m drunk, I tell you, mon vieux. Oh, I am so soused.\'94 We went along the road all night in the dark and the adjutant kept riding up alongside my kitchen and saying, \'93You must put it out. It is dangerous. It will be observed.\'94 We were fifty kilometers from the front but the adjutant worried about the fire in my kitchen. It was funny going along that road. That was when I was a kitchen corporal. Indian Camp AT THE LAKE SHORE THERE WAS AN other rowboat drawn up. The two Indians stood waiting. Nick and his father got in the stern of the boat and the Indians shoved it off and one of them got in to row. Uncle George sat in the stern of the camp rowboat. The young Indian shoved the camp boat off and got in to row Uncle George. The two boats started off in the dark. Nick heard the oarlocks of the other boat quite a way ahead of them in the mist. The Indians rowed with quick choppy strokes. Nick lay back with his father\'92s arm around him. It was cold on the water. The Indian who was rowing them was working very hard, but the other boat moved further ahead in the mist all the time. \'93Where are we going, Dad?\'94 Nick asked. \'93Over to the Indian camp. There is an Indian lady very sick.\'94 \'93Oh,\'94 said Nick. Across the bay they found the other boat beached. Uncle George was smoking a cigar in the dark. The young Indian pulled the boat way up on the beach. Uncle George gave both the Indians cigars. They walked up from the beach through a meadow that was soaking wet with dew, following the young Indian who carried a lantern. Then they went into the woods and followed a trail that led to the logging road that ran back into the hills. It was much lighter on the logging road as the timber was cut away on both sides. The young Indian stopped and blew out his lantern and they all walked on along the road. They came around a bend and a dog came out barking. Ahead were the lights of the shanties where the Indian bark-peelers lived. More dogs rushed out at them. The two Indians sent them back to the shanties. In the shanty nearest the road there was a light in the window. An old woman stood in the doorway holding a lamp. Inside on a wooden bunk lay a young Indian woman. She had been trying to have her baby for two days. All the old women in the camp had been helping her. The men had moved off up the road to sit in the dark and smoke out of range of the noise she made. She screamed just as Nick and the two Indians followed his father and Uncle George into the shanty. She lay in the lower bunk, very big under a quilt. Her head was turned to one side. In the upper bunk was her husband. He had cut his foot very badly with an ax three days before. He was smoking a pipe. The room smelled very bad. Nick\'92s father ordered some water to be put on the stove, and while it was heating he spoke to Nick. \'93This lady is going to have a baby, Nick,\'94 he said. \'93I know,\'94 said Nick. \'93You don\'92t know,\'94 said his father. \'93Listen to me. What she is going through is called being in labor. The baby wants to be born and she wants it to be born. All her muscles are trying to get the baby born. That is what is happening when she screams.\'94 \'93I see,\'94 Nick said. Just then the woman cried out. \'93Oh, Daddy, can\'92t you give her something to make her stop screaming?\'94 asked Nick. \'93No. I haven\'92t any an\'e6sthetic,\'94 his father said. \'93But her screams are not important. I don\'92t hear them because they are not important.\'94 The husband in the upper bunk rolled over against the wall. The woman in the kitchen motioned to the doctor that the water was hot. Nick\'92s father went into the kitchen and poured about half of the water out of the big kettle into a basin. Into the water left in the kettle he put several things he unwrapped from a handkerchief. \'93Those must boil,\'94 he said, and began to scrub his hands in the basin of hot water with a cake of soap he had brought from the camp. Nick watched his father\'92s hands scrubbing each other with the soap. While his father washed his hands very carefully and thoroughly, he talked. \'93You see, Nick, babies are supposed to be born head first but sometimes they\'92re not. When they\'92re not they make a lot of trouble for everybody. Maybe I\'92ll have to operate on this lady. We\'92ll know in a little while.\'94 When he was satisfied with his hands he went in and went to work. \'93Pull back that quilt, will you, George?\'94 he said. \'93I\'92d rather not touch it.\'94 Later when he started to operate Uncle George and three Indian men held the woman still. She bit Uncle George on the arm and Uncle George said, \'93Damn squaw bitch!\'94 and the young Indian who had rowed Uncle George over laughed at him. Nick held the basin for his father. It all took a long time. His father picked the baby up and slapped it to make it breathe and handed it to the old woman. \'93See, it\'92s a boy, Nick,\'94 he said. \'93How do you like being an interne?\'94 Nick said, \'93All right.\'94 He was looking away so as not to see what his father was doing. \'93There. That gets it,\'94 said his father and put something into the basin. Nick didn\'92t look at it. \'93Now,\'94 his father said, \'93there\'92s some stitches to put in. You can watch this or not, Nick, just as you like. I\'92m going to sew up the incision I made.\'94 Nick did not watch. His curiosity had been gone for a long time. His father finished and stood up. Uncle George and the three Indian men stood up. Nick put the basin out in the kitchen. Uncle George looked at his arm. The young Indian smiled reminiscently. \'93I\'92ll put some peroxide on that, George,\'94 the doctor said. He bent over the Indian woman. She was quiet now and her eyes were closed. She looked very pale. She did not know what had become of the baby or anything. \'93I\'92ll be back in the morning,\'94 the doctor said, standing up. \'93The nurse should be here from St. Ignace by noon and she\'92ll bring everything we need.\'94 He was feeling exalted and talkative as football players are in the dressing room after a game. \'93That\'92s one for the medical journal, George,\'94 he said. \'93Doing a C\'e6sarian with a jack-knife and sewing it up with nine-foot, tapered gut leaders.\'94 Uncle George was standing against the wall, looking at his arm. \'93Oh, you\'92re a great man, all right,\'94 he said. \'93Ought to have a look at the proud father. They\'92re usually the worst sufferers in these little affairs,\'94 the doctor said. \'93I must say he took it all pretty quietly.\'94 He pulled back the blanket from the Indian\'92s head. His hand came away wet. He mounted on the edge of the lower bunk with the lamp in one hand and looked in. The Indian lay with his face toward the wall. His throat had been cut from ear to ear. The blood had flowed down into a pool where his body sagged the bunk. His head rested on his left arm. The open razor lay, edge up, in the blankets. \'93Take Nick out of the shanty, George,\'94 the doctor said. There was no need of that. Nick, standing in the door of the kitchen, had a good view of the upper bunk when his father, the lamp in one hand, tipped the Indian\'92s head back. It was just beginning to be daylight when they walked along the logging road back toward the lake. \'93I\'92m terribly sorry I brought you along, Nickie,\'94 said his father, all his post-operative exhilaration gone. \'93It was an awful mess to put you through.\'94 \'93Do ladies always have such a hard time having babies?\'94 Nick asked. \'93No, that was very, very exceptional.\'94 \'93Why did he kill himself, Daddy?\'94 \'93I don\'92t know, Nick. He couldn\'92t stand things, I guess.\'94 \'93Do many men kill themselves, Daddy?\'94 \'93Not very many, Nick.\'94 \'93Do many women?\'94 \'93Hardly ever.\'94 \'93Don\'92t they ever?\'94 \'93Oh, yes. They do sometimes.\'94 \'93Daddy?\'94 \'93Yes.\'94 \'93Where did Uncle George go?\'94 \'93He\'92ll turn up all right.\'94 \'93Is dying hard, Daddy?\'94 \'93No, I think it\'92s pretty easy, Nick. It all depends.\'94 They were seated in the boat, Nick in the stern, his father rowing. The sun was coming up over the hills. A bass jumped, making a circle in the water. Nick trailed his hand in the water. It felt warm in the sharp chill of the morning. In the early morning on the lake sitting in the stern of the boat with his father rowing, he felt quite sure that he would never die. CHAPTER II Minarets stuck up in the rain out of Adrianople across the mud flats. The carts were jammed for thirty miles along the Karagatch road. Water buf alo and cattle were hauling carts through the mud. No end and no beginning. Just carts loaded with everything they owned. The old men and women, soaked through, walked along keeping the cattle moving. The Maritza was running yellow almost up to the bridge. Carts were jammed solid on the bridge with camels bobbing along through them. Greek cavalry herded along the procession. Women and kids were in the carts crouched with mattresses, mirrors, sewing machines, bundles. There was a woman having a kid with a young girl holding a blanket over her and crying. Scared sick looking at it. It rained all through the evacuation. The Doctor and the Doctor\'92s Wife DICK BOULTON CAME FROM THE INDIAN camp to cut up logs for Nick\'92s father. He brought his son Eddy and another Indian named Billy Tabeshaw with him. They came in through the back gate out of the woods, Eddy carrying the long cross-cut saw. It flopped over his shoulder and made a musical sound as he walked. Billy Tabeshaw carried two big canthooks. Dick had three axes under his arm. He turned and shut the gate. The others went on ahead of him down to the lake shore where the logs were buried in the sand. The logs had been lost from the big log booms that were towed down the lake to the mill by the steamer Magic. They had drifted up onto the beach and if nothing were done about them sooner or later the crew of the Magic would come along the shore in a rowboat, spot the logs, drive an iron spike with a ring on it into the end of each one and then tow them out into the lake to make a new boom. But the lumbermen might never come for them because a few logs were not worth the price of a crew to gather them. If no one came for them they would be left to waterlog and rot on the beach. Nick\'92s father always assumed that this was what would happen, and hired the Indians to come down from the camp and cut the logs up with the cross-cut saw and split them with a wedge to make cord wood and chunks for the open fireplace. Dick Boulton walked around past the cottage down to the lake. There were four big beech logs lying almost buried in the sand. Eddy hung the saw up by one of its handles in the crotch of a tree. Dick put the three axes down on the little dock. Dick was a halfbreed and many of the farmers around the lake believed he was really a white man. He was very lazy but a great worker once he was started. He took a plug of tobacco out of his pocket, bit off a chew and spoke in Ojibway to Eddy and Billy Tabeshaw. They sunk the ends of their cant-hooks into one of the logs and swung against it to loosen it in the sand. They swung their weight against the shafts of the cant-hooks. The log moved in the sand. Dick Boulton turned to Nick\'92s father. \'93Well, Doc,\'94 he said, \'93that\'92s a nice lot of timber you\'92ve stolen.\'94 \'93Don\'92t talk that way, Dick,\'94 the doctor said. \'93It\'92s driftwood.\'94 Eddy and Billy Tabeshaw had rocked the log out of the wet sand and rolled it toward the water. \'93Put it right in,\'94 Dick Boulton shouted. \'93What are you doing that for?\'94 asked the doctor. \'93Wash it off. Clean off the sand on account of the saw. I want to see who it belongs to,\'94 Dick said. The log was just awash in the lake. Eddy and Billy Tabeshaw leaned on their cant-hooks sweating in the sun. Dick kneeled down in the sand and looked at the mark of the scaler\'92s hammer in the wood at the end of the log. \'93It belongs to White and McNally,\'94 he said, standing up and brushing off his trousers knees. The doctor was very uncomfortable. \'93You\'92d better not saw it up then, Dick,\'94 he said, shortly. \'93Don\'92t get huffy, Doc,\'94 said Dick. \'93Don\'92t get huffy. I don\'92t care who you steal from. It\'92s none of my business.\'94 \'93If you think the logs are stolen, leave them alone and take your tools back to the camp,\'94 the doctor said. His face was red. \'93Don\'92t go off at half cock, Doc,\'94 Dick said. He spat tobacco juice on the log. It slid off, thinning in the water. \'93You know they\'92re stolen as well as I do. It don\'92t make any difference to me.\'94 \'93All right. If you think the logs are stolen, take your stuff and get out.\'94 \'93Now, Doc\'97\'94 \'93Take your stuff and get out.\'94 \'93Listen, Doc.\'94 \'93If you call me Doc once again. I\'92ll knock your eye teeth down your throat.\'94 \'93Oh, no, you won\'92t, Doc.\'94 Dick Boulton looked at the doctor. Dick was a big man. He knew how big a man he was. He liked to get into fights. He was happy. Eddy and Billy Tabeshaw leaned on their cant-hooks and looked at the doctor. The doctor chewed the beard on his lower lip and looked at Dick Boulton. Then he turned away and walked up the hill to the cottage. They could see from his back how angry he was. They all watched him walk up the hill and go inside the cottage. Dick said something in Ojibway. Eddy laughed but Billy Tabeshaw looked very serious. He did not understand English but he had sweat all the time the row was going on. He was fat with only a few hairs of mustache like a Chinaman. He picked up the two cant-hooks. Dick picked up the axes and Eddy took the saw down from the tree. They started off and walked up past the cottage and out the back gate into the woods. Dick left the gate open. Billy Tabeshaw went back and fastened it. They were gone through the woods. In the cottage the doctor, sitting on the bed in his room, saw a pile of medical journals on the floor by the bureau. They were still in their wrappers unopened. It irritated him. \'93Aren\'92t you going back to work, dear?\'94 asked the doctor\'92s wife from the room where she was lying with the blinds drawn. \'93No!\'94 \'93Was anything the matter?\'94 \'93I had a row with Dick Boulton.\'94 \'93Oh,\'94 said his wife. \'93I hope you didn\'92t lose your temper, Henry.\'94 \'93No,\'94 said the doctor. \'93Remember, that he who ruleth his spirit is greater than he that taketh a city,\'94 said his wife. She was a Christian Scientist. Her Bible, her copy of Science and Health and her Quarterly were on a table beside her bed in the darkened room. Her husband did not answer. He was sitting on his bed now, cleaning a shotgun. He pushed the magazine full of the heavy yellow shells and pumped them out again. They were scattered on the bed. \'93Henry,\'94 his wife called. Then paused a moment. \'93Henry!\'94 \'93Yes,\'94 the doctor said. \'93You didn\'92t say anything to Boulton to anger him, did you?\'94 \'93No,\'94 said the doctor. \'93What was the trouble about, dear?\'94 \'93Nothing much.\'94 \'93Tell me, Henry. Please don\'92t try and keep anything from me. What was the trouble about?\'94 \'93Well, Dick owes me a lot of money for pulling his squaw through pneumonia and I guess he wanted a row so he wouldn\'92t have to take it out in work.\'94 His wife was silent. The doctor wiped his gun carefully with a rag. He pushed the shells back in against the spring of the magazine. He sat with the gun on his knees. He was very fond of it. Then he heard his wife\'92s voice from the darkened room. \'93Dear, I don\'92t think, I really don\'92t think that any one would really do a thing like that.\'94 \'93No?\'94 the doctor said. \'93No. I can\'92t really believe that any one would do a thing of that sort intentionally.\'94 The doctor stood up and put the shotgun in the corner behind the dresser. \'93Are you going out, dear?\'94 his wife said. \'93I think I\'92ll go for a walk,\'94 the doctor said. \'93If you see Nick, dear, will you tell him his mother wants to see him?\'94 his wife said. The doctor went out on the porch. The screen door slammed behind him. He heard his wife catch her breath when the door slammed. \'93Sorry,\'94 he said, outside her window with the blinds drawn. \'93It\'92s all right, dear,\'94 she said. He walked in the heat out the gate and along the path into the hemlock woods. It was cool in the woods even on such a hot day. He found Nick sitting with his back against a tree, reading. \'93Your mother wants you to come and see her,\'94 the doctor said. \'93I want to go with you,\'94 Nick said. His father looked down at him. \'93All right. Come on, then,\'94 his father said. \'93Give me the book, I\'92ll put it in my pocket.\'94 \'93I know where there\'92s black squirrels, Daddy,\'94 Nick said. \'93All right,\'94 said his father. \'93Let\'92s go there.\'94 CHAPTER III We were in a garden at Mons. Young Buckley came in with his patrol from across the river. The first German I saw climbed up over the garden wall. We waited till he got one leg over and then potted him. He had so much equipment on and looked awfully surprised and fell down into the garden. Then three more came over farther down the wall. We shot them. They all came just like that. The End of Something IN THE OLD DAYS HORTONS BAY WAS A lumbering town. No one who lived in it was out of sound of the big saws in the mill by the lake. Then one year there were no more logs to make lumber. The lumber schooners came into the bay and were loaded with the cut of the mill that stood stacked in the yard. All the piles of lumber were carried away. The big mill building had all its machinery that was removable taken out and hoisted on board one of the schooners by the men who had worked in the mill. The schooner moved out of the bay toward the open lake carrying the two great saws, the travelling carriage that hurled the logs against the revolving, circular saws and all the rollers, wheels, belts and iron piled on a hull-deep load of lumber. Its open hold covered with canvas and lashed tight, the sails of the schooner filled and it moved out into the open lake, carrying with it everything that had made the mill a mill and Hortons Bay a town. The one-story bunk houses, the eating-house, the company store, the mill offices, and the big mill itself stood deserted in the acres of sawdust that covered the swampy meadow by the shore of the bay. Ten years later there was nothing of the mill left except the broken white limestone of its foundations showing through the swampy second growth as Nick and Marjorie rowed along the shore. They were trolling along the edge of the channel-bank where the bottom dropped off suddenly from sandy shallows to twelve feet of dark water. They were trolling on their way to the point to set night lines for rainbow trout. \'93There\'92s our old ruin, Nick,\'94 Marjorie said. Nick, rowing, looked at the white stone in the green trees. \'93There it is,\'94 he said. \'93Can you remember when it was a mill?\'94 Marjorie asked. \'93I can just remember,\'94 Nick said. \'93It seems more like a castle,\'94 Marjorie said. Nick said nothing. They rowed on out of sight of the mill, following the shore line. Then Nick cut across the bay. \'93They aren\'92t striking,\'94 he said. \'93No,\'94 Marione said. She was intent on the rod all the time they trolled, even when she talked. She loved to fish. She loved to fish with Nick. Close beside the boat a big trout broke the surface of the water. Nick pulled hard on one oar so the boat would turn and the bait spinning far behind would pass where the trout was feeding. As the trout\'92s back came up out of the water the minnows jumped wildly. They sprinkled the surface like a handful of shot thrown into the water. Another trout broke water, feeding on the other side of the boat. \'93They\'92re feeding,\'94 Marjorie said. \'93But they won\'92t strike,\'94 Nick said. He rowed the boat around to troll past both the feeding fish, then headed it for the point. Marjorie did not reel in until the boat touched the shore. They pulled the boat up the beach and Nick lifted out a pail of live perch. The perch swam in the water in the pail. Nick caught three of them with his hands and cut their heads off and skinned them while Marjorie chased with her hands in the bucket, finally caught a perch, cut its head off and skinned it. Nick looked at her fish. \'93You don\'92t want to take the ventral fin out,\'94 he said. \'93It\'92ll be all right for bait but it\'92s better with the ventral fin in.\'94 He hooked each of the skinned perch through the tail. There were two hooks attached to a leader on each rod. Then Marjorie rowed the boat out over the channel-bank, holding the line in her teeth, and looking toward Nick, who stood on the shore holding the rod and letting the line run out from the reel. \'93That\'92s about right,\'94 he called. \'93Should I let it drop?\'94 Marjorie called back, holding the line in her hand. \'93Sure. Let it go.\'94 Marjorie dropped the line overboard and watched the baits go down through the water. She came in with the boat and ran the second line out the same way. Each time Nick set a heavy slab of driftwood across the butt of the rod to hold it solid and propped it up at an angle with a small slab. He reeled in the slack line so the line ran taut out to where the bait rested on the sandy floor of the channel and set the click on the reel. When a trout, feeding on the bottom, took the bait it would run with it, taking line out of the reel in a rush and making the reel sing with the click on. Marjorie rowed up the point a little way so she would not disturb the line. She pulled hard on the oars and the boat went way up the beach. Little waves came in with it. Marjorie stepped out of the boat and Nick pulled the boat high up the beach. \'93What\'92s the matter, Nick?\'94 Marjorie asked. \'93I don\'92t know,\'94 Nick said, getting wood for a fire. They made a fire with driftwood. Marjorie went to the boat and brought a blanket. The evening breeze blew the smoke toward the point, so Marjorie spread the blanket out between the fire and the lake. Marjorie sat on the blanket with her back to the fire and waited for Nick. He came over and sat down beside her on the blanket. In back of them was the close second-growth timber of the point and in front was the bay with the mouth of Hortons Creek. It was not quite dark. The fire-light went as far as the water. They could both see the two steel rods at an angle over the dark water. The fire glinted on the reels. Marjorie unpacked the basket of supper. \'93I don\'92t feel like eating,\'94 said Nick. \'93Come on and eat, Nick,\'94 \'93All right.\'94 They ate without talking, and watched the two rods and the fire-light in the water. \'93There\'92s going to be a moon tonight,\'94 said Nick. He looked across the bay to the hills that were beginning to sharpen against the sky. Beyond the hills he knew the moon was coming up. \'93I know it,\'94 Marjorie said happily. \'93You know everything,\'94 Nick said. \'93Oh, Nick, please cut it out! Please, please don\'92t be that way!\'94 \'93I can\'92t help it,\'94 Nick said. \'93You do. You know everything. That\'92s the trouble. You know you do.\'94 Marjorie did not say anything. \'93I\'92ve taught you everything. You know you do. What don\'92t you know, anyway?\'94 \'93Oh, shut up,\'94 Marjorie said. \'93There comes the moon.\'94 They sat on the blanket without touching each other and watched the moon rise. \'93You don\'92t have to talk silly,\'94 Marjorie said. \'93What\'92s really the matter?\'94 \'93I don\'92t know.\'94 \'93Of course you know.\'94 \'93No I don\'92t.\'94 \'93Go on and say it.\'94 Nick looked on at the moon, coming up over the hills. \'93It isn\'92t fun any more.\'94 He was afraid to look at Marjorie. Then he looked at her. She sat there with her back toward him. He looked at her back. \'93It isn\'92t fun any more Not any of it.\'94 She didn\'92t say anything. He went on. \'93I feel as though everything was gone to hell inside of me. I don\'92t know, Marge. I don\'92t know what to say.\'94 He looked on at her back. \'93Isn\'92t love any fun?\'94 Marjorie said. \'93No,\'94 Nick said. Marjorie stood up. Nick sat there his head in his hands. \'93I\'92m going to take the boat,\'94 Marjorie called to him. \'93You can walk back around the point.\'94 \'93All right,\'94 Nick said. \'93I\'92ll push the boat off for you.\'94 \'93You don\'92t need to,\'94 she said. She was afloat in the boat on the water with the moonlight on it. Nick went back and lay down with his face in the blanket by the fire. He could hear Marjorie rowing on the water. He lay there for a long time. He lay there while he heard Bill come into the clearing walking around through the woods. He felt Bill coming up to the fire. Bill didn\'92t touch him, either. \'93Did she go all right?\'94 Bill said. \'93Yes,\'94 Nick said, lying, his face on the blanket. \'93Have a scene?\'94 \'93No, there wasn\'92t any scene.\'94 \'93How do you feel?\'94 \'93Oh, go away, Bill! Go away for a while.\'94 Bill selected a sandwich from the lunch basket and walked over to have a look at the rods. CHAPTER IV It was a frightfully hot day. We\'92d jammed an absolutely perfect barricade across the bridge. It was simply priceless. A big old wrought-iron grating from the front of a house. Too heavy to lift and you could shoot through it and they would have to climb over it. It was absolutely topping. They tried taget over it, and we potted them from forty yards. They rushed it, and of icers came out alone and worked on it. It was an absolutely perfect obstacle. Their of icers were very fine. We were frightfully put out when we heard the flank had gone, and we had to fall back. The Three-Day Blow THE RAIN STOPPED AS NICK TURNED INTO the road that went up through the orchard. The fruit had been picked and the fall wind blew through the bare trees. Nick stopped and picked up a Wagner apple from beside the road, shiny in the brown grass from the rain. He put the apple in the pocket of his Mackinaw coat. The road came out of the orchard on to the top of the hill. There was the cottage, the porch bare, smoke coming from the chimney. In back was the garage, the chicken coop and the second-growth timber like a hedge against the woods behind. The big trees swayed far over in the wind as he watched. It was the first of the autumn storms. As Nick crossed the open field above the orchard the door of the cottage opened and Bill came out. He stood on the porch looking out. \'93Well, Wemedge,\'94 he said. \'93Hey, Bill,\'94 Nick said, coming up the steps. They stood together, looking out across the country, down over the orchard, beyond the road, across the lower fields and the woods of the point to the lake. The wind was blowing straight down the lake. They could see the surf along Ten Mile point. \'93She\'92s blowing,\'94 Nick said. \'93She\'92ll blow like that for three days,\'94 Bill said. \'93Is your dad in?\'94 Nick said. \'93No. He\'92s out with the gun. Come on in.\'94 Nick went inside the cottage. There was a big fire in the fireplace. The wind made it roar. Bill shut the door. \'93Have a drink?\'94 he said. He went out to the kitchen and came back with two glasses and a pitcher of water. Nick reached the whisky bottle from the shelf above the fireplace. \'93All right?\'94 he said. \'93Good,\'94 said Bill. They sat in front of the fire and drank the Irish whisky and water. \'93It\'92s got a swell, smoky taste,\'94 Nick said, and looked at the fire through the glass. \'93That\'92s the peat,\'94 Bill said. \'93You can\'92t get peat into liquor,\'94 Nick said. \'93That doesn\'92t make any difference,\'94 Bill said. \'93You ever seen any peat?\'94 Nick asked. \'93No,\'94 said Bill. \'93Neither have I,\'94 Nick said. His shoes, stretched out on the hearth, began to steam in front of the fire. \'93Better take your shoes off,\'94 Bill said. \'93I haven\'92t got any socks on.\'94 \'93Take them off and dry them and I\'92ll get you some,\'94 Bill said. He went upstairs into the loft and Nick heard him walking about overhead. Upstairs was open under the roof and was where Bill and his father and he, Nick, sometimes slept. In back was a dressing room. They moved the cots back out of the rain and covered them with rubber blankets. Bill came down with a pair of heavy wool socks. \'93It\'92s getting too late to go around without socks,\'94 he said. \'93I hate to start them again,\'94 Nick said. He pulled the socks on and slumped back in the chair, putting his feet up on the screen in front of the fire. \'93You\'92ll dent in the screen,\'94 Bill said. Nick swung his feet over to the side of the fireplace. \'93Got anything to read?\'94 he asked. \'93Only the paper.\'94 \'93What did the Cards do?\'94 \'93Dropped a double header to the Giants.\'94 \'93That ought to cinch it for them.\'94 \'93It\'92s a gift,\'94 Bill said. \'93As long as McGraw can buy every good ball player in the league there\'92s nothing to it.\'94 \'93He can\'92t buy them all,\'94 Nick said. \'93He buys all the ones he wants,\'94 Bill said. \'93Or he makes them discontented so they have to trade them to him.\'94 \'93Like Heinie Zim,\'94 Nick agreed. \'93That bonehead will do him a lot of good.\'94 Bill stood up. \'93He can hit,\'94 Nick offered. The heat from the fire was baking his legs. \'93He\'92s a sweet fielder, too,\'94 Bill said. \'93But he loses ball games.\'94 \'93Maybe that\'92s what McGraw wants him for,\'94 Nick suggested. \'93Maybe,\'94 Bill agreed. \'93There\'92s always more to it than we know about,\'94 Nick said. \'93Of course. But we\'92ve got pretty good dope for being so far away.\'94 \'93Like how much better you can pick them if you don\'92t see the horses.\'94 \'93That\'92s it.\'94 Bill reached down the whisky bottle. His big hand went all the way around it. He poured the whisky into the glass Nick held out. \'93How much water?\'94 \'93Just the same.\'94 He sat down on the floor beside Nick\'92s chair. \'93It\'92s good when the fall storms come, isn\'92t it?\'94 Nick said, \'93It\'92s swell.\'94 \'93It\'92s the best time of year,\'94 Nick said. \'93Wouldn\'92t it be hell to be in town?\'94 Bill said. \'93I\'92d like to see the World Series,\'94 Nick said. \'93Well, they\'92re always in New York or Philadelphia now,\'94 Bill said. \'93That doesn\'92t do us any good.\'94 \'93I wonder if the Cards will ever win a pennant?\'94 \'93Not in our lifetime,\'94 Bill said. \'93Gee, they\'92d go crazy,\'94 Nick said. \'93Do you remember when they got going that once before they had the train wreck?\'94 \'93Boy!\'94 Nick said, remembering. Bill reached over to the table under the window for the book that lay there, face down, where he had put it when he went to the door. He held his glass in one hand and the book in the other, leaning back against Nick\'92s chair. \'93What are you reading?\'94 \'93Richard Feverel.\'94 \'93I couldn\'92t get into it.\'94 \'93It\'92s all right,\'94 Bill said. \'93It ain\'92t a bad book, Wemedge.\'94 \'93What else have you got I haven\'92t read?\'94 Nick asked. \'93Did you read the Forest Lovers?\'94 \'93Yup. That\'92s the one where they go to bed every night with the naked sword between them.\'94 \'93That\'92s a good book, Wemedge.\'94 \'93It\'92s a swell book. What I couldn\'92t ever understand was what good the sword would do. It would have to stay edge up all the time because if it went over flat you could roll right over it and it wouldn\'92t make any trouble.\'94 \'93It\'92s a symbol,\'94 Bill said. \'93Sure\'94 said Nick, \'93but it isn\'92t practical.\'94 \'93Did you ever read Fortitude?\'94 \'93It\'92s fine,\'94 Nick said. \'93That\'92s a real book. That\'92s where his old man is after him all the time. Have you got any more by Walpole?\'94 \'93The Dark Forest,\'94 Bill said. \'93It\'92s about Russia.\'94 \'93What does he know about Russia?\'94 Nick asked. \'93I don\'92t know. You can\'92t ever tell about those guys. Maybe he was there when he was a boy. He\'92s got a lot of dope on it.\'94 \'93I\'92d like to meet him,\'94 Nick said. \'93I\'92d like to meet Chesterton,\'94 Bill said. \'93I wish he was here now,\'94 Nick said. \'93We\'92d take him fishing to the \'92Voix tomorrow.\'94 \'93I wonder if he\'92d like to go fishing,\'94 Bill said. \'93Sure,\'94 said Nick. \'93He must be about the best guy there is. Do you remember the Flying Inn?\'94 \'93\'91If an angel out of heaven Gives you something else to drink. Thank him for his kind intentions; Go and pour them down the sink.\'92\'94 \'93That\'92s right,\'94 said Nick. \'93I guess he\'92s a better guy than Walpole.\'94 \'93Oh, he\'92s a better guy, all right,\'94 Bill said. \'93But Walpole\'92s a better writer.\'94 \'93I don\'92t know,\'94 Nick said. \'93Chesterton\'92s a classic.\'94 \'93Walpole\'92s a classic, too,\'94 Bill insisted. \'93I wish we had them both here,\'94 Nick said. \'93We\'92d take them both fishing to the \'92Voix tomorrow.\'94 \'93Let\'92s get drunk,\'94 Bill said. \'93All right,\'94 Nick agreed. \'93My old man won\'92t care,\'94 Bill said. \'93Are you sure?\'94 said Nick. \'93I know it,\'94 Bill said. \'93I\'92m a little drunk now,\'94 Nick said. \'93You aren\'92t drunk,\'94 Bill said. He got up from the floor and reached for the whisky bottle. Nick held out his glass. His eyes fixed on it while Bill poured. Bill poured the glass half full of whisky. \'93Put in your own water,\'94 he said. \'93There\'92s just one more shot.\'94 \'93Got any more?\'94 Nick asked. \'93There\'92s plenty more but dad only likes me to drink what\'92s open.\'94 \'93Sure,\'94 said Nick. \'93He says opening bottles is what makes drunkards,\'94 Bill explained. \'93That\'92s right,\'94 said Nick. He was impressed. He had never thought of that before. He had always thought it was solitary drinking that made drunkards. \'93How is your dad?\'94 he asked respectfully. \'93He\'92s all right,\'94 Bill said. \'93He gets a little wild sometimes.\'94 \'93He\'92s a swell guy,\'94 Nick said. He poured water into his glass out of the pitcher. It mixed slowly with the whisky. There was more whisky than water. \'93You bet your life he is,\'94 Bill said. \'93My old man\'92s all right,\'94 Nick said. \'93You\'92re damn right he is,\'94 said Bill. \'93He claims he\'92s never taken a drink in his life,\'94 Nick said, as though announcing a scientific fact. \'93Well, he\'92s a doctor. My old man\'92s a painter. That\'92s different.\'94 \'93He\'92s missed a lot,\'94 Nick said sadly. \'93You can\'92t tell.\'94 Bill said. \'93Everything\'92s got its compensations.\'94 \'93He says he\'92s missed a lot himself,\'94 Nick confessed. \'93Well, dad\'92s had a tough time,\'94 Bill said. \'93It all evens up,\'94 Nick said. They sat looking into the fire and thinking of this profound truth. \'93I\'92ll get a chunk from the back porch,\'94 Nick said. He had noticed while looking into the fire that the fire was dying down. Also he wished to show he could hold his liquor and be practical. Even if his father had never touched a drop Bill was not going to get him drunk before he himself was drunk. \'93Bring one of the big beech chunks,\'94 Bill said. He was also being consciously practical. Nick came in with the log through the kitchen and in passing knocked a pan off the kitchen table. He laid the log down and picked up the pan. It had contained dried apricots, soaking in water. He carefully picked up all the apricots off the floor, some of them had gone under the stove, and put them back in the pan. He dipped some more water onto them from the pail by the table. He felt quite proud of himself. He had been thoroughly practical. He came in carrying the log and Bill got up from the chair and helped him put it on the fire. \'93That\'92s a swell log,\'94 Nick said. \'93I\'92d been saving it for the bad weather,\'94 Bill said. \'93A log like that will bum all night.\'94 \'93There\'92ll be coals left to start the fire in the morning,\'94 Nick said. \'93That\'92s right,\'94 Bill agreed. They were conducting the conversation on a high plane. \'93Let\'92s have another drink,\'94 Nick said. \'93I think there\'92s another bottle open in the locker,\'94 Bill said. He kneeled down in the corner in front of the locker and brought out a square-faced bottle. \'93It\'92s Scotch,\'94 he said. \'93I\'92ll get some more water,\'94 Nick said. He went out into the kitchen again. He filled the pitcher with the dipper dipping cold spring water from the pail. On his way back to the living room he passed a mirror in the dining room and looked in it. His face looked strange. He smiled at the face in the mirror and it grinned back at him. He winked at it and went on. It was not his face but it didn\'92t make any difference. Bill had poured out the drinks. \'93That\'92s an awfully big shot,\'94 Nick said. \'93Not for us, Wemedge,\'94 Bill said. \'93What\'92ll we drink to?\'94 Nick asked, holding up the glass. \'93Let\'92s drink to fishing,\'94 Bill said. \'93All right,\'94 Nick said. \'93Gentlemen, I give you fishing.\'94 \'93All fishing,\'94 Bill said. \'93Everywhere.\'94 \'93Fishing,\'94 Nick said. \'93That\'92s what we drink to.\'94 \'93It\'92s better than baseball,\'94 Bill said. \'93There isn\'92t any comparison,\'94 said Nick. \'93How did we ever get talking about baseball?\'94 \'93It was a mistake,\'94 Bill said. \'93Baseball is a game for louts.\'94 They drank all that was in their glasses. \'93Now let\'92s drink to Chesterton.\'94 \'93And Walpole,\'94 Nick interposed. Nick poured out the liquor. Bill poured in the water. They looked at each other. They felt very fine. \'93Gentlemen,\'94 Bill said, \'93I give you Chesterton and Walpole.\'94 \'93Exactly, gentlemen,\'94 Nick said. They drank. Bill filled up the glasses. They sat down in the big chairs in front of the fire. \'93You were very wise, Wemedge,\'94 Bill said. \'93What do you mean?\'94 asked Nick. \'93To bust off that Marge business,\'94 Bill said. \'93I guess so,\'94 said Nick. \'93It was the only thing to do. If you hadn\'92t, by now you\'92d be back home working trying to get enough money to get married.\'94 Nick said nothing. \'93Once a man\'92s married he\'92s absolutely bitched,\'94 Bill went on. \'93He hasn\'92t got anything more. Nothing. Not a damn thing. He\'92s done for. You\'92ve seen the guys that get married.\'94 Nick said nothing. \'93You can tell them,\'94 Bill said. \'93They get this sort of fat married look. They\'92re done for.\'94 \'93Sure,\'94 said Nick. \'93It was probably bad busting it off,\'94 Bill said. \'93But you always fall for somebody else and then it\'92s all right. Fall for them but don\'92t let them ruin you.\'94 \'93Yes,\'94 said Nick. \'93If you\'92d have married her you would have had to marry the whole family. Remember her mother and that guy she married.\'94 Nick nodded. \'93Imagine having them around the house all the time and going to Sunday dinners at their house, and having them over to dinner and her telling Marge all the time what to do and how to act.\'94 Nick sat quiet. \'93You came out of it damned well,\'94 Bill said. \'93Now she can marry somebody of her own sort and settle down and be happy. You can\'92t mix oil and water and you can\'92t mix that sort of thing any more than if I\'92d marry Ida that works for Strattons. She\'92d probably like it, too.\'94 Nick said nothing. The liquor had all died out of him and left him alone. Bill wasn\'92t there. He wasn\'92t sitting in front of the fire or going fishing tomorrow with Bill and his dad or anything. He wasn\'92t drunk. It was all gone. All he knew was that he had once had Marjorie and that he had lost her. She was gone and he had sent her away. That was all that mattered. He might never see her again. Probably he never would. It was all gone, finished. \'93Let\'92s have another drink,\'94 Nick said. Bill poured it out. Nick splashed in a little water. \'93If you\'92d gone on that way we wouldn\'92t be here now,\'94 Bill said. That was true. His original plan had been to go down home and get a job. Then he had planned to stay in Charlevoix all winter so he could be near Marge. Now he did not know what he was going to do. \'93Probably we wouldn\'92t even be going fishing tomorrow,\'94 Bill said. \'93You had the right dope, all right.\'94 \'93I couldn\'92t help it,\'94 Nick said. \'93I know. That\'92s the way it works out,\'94 Bill said. \'93All of a sudden everything was over,\'94 Nick said. \'93I don\'92t know why it was. I couldn\'92t help it. Just like when the three-day blows come now and rip all the leaves off the trees.\'94 \'93Well, it\'92s over. That\'92s the point,\'94 Bill said. \'93It was my fault,\'94 Nick said. \'93It doesn\'92t make any difference whose fault it was,\'94 Bill said. \'93No, I suppose not,\'94 Nick said. The big thing was that Marjorie was gone and that probably he would never see her again. He had talked to her about how they would go to Italy together and the fun they would have. Places they would be together. It was all gone now. \'93So long as it\'92s over that\'92s all that matters,\'94 Bill said. \'93I tell you, Wemedge, I was worried while it was going on. You played it right. I understand her mother is sore as hell. She told a lot of people you were engaged.\'94 \'93We weren\'92t engaged,\'94 Nick said. \'93It was all around that you were.\'94 \'93I can\'92t help it,\'94 Nick said. \'93We weren\'92t.\'94 \'93Weren\'92t you going to get married?\'94 Bill asked. \'93Yes. But we weren\'92t engaged,\'94 Nick said. \'93What\'92s the difference?\'94 Bill asked judicially. \'93I don\'92t know. There\'92s a difference.\'94 \'93I don\'92t see it,\'94 said Bill. \'93All right,\'94 said Nick. \'93Let\'92s get drunk.\'94 \'93All right,\'94 Bill said. \'93Let\'92s get really drunk.\'94 \'93Let\'92s get drunk and then go swimming,\'94 Nick said. He drank off his glass. \'93I\'92m sorry as hell about her but what could I do?\'94 he said. \'93You know what her mother was like!\'94 \'93She was terrible,\'94 Bill said. \'93All of a sudden it was over,\'94 Nick said. \'93I oughtn\'92t to talk about it.\'94 \'93You aren\'92t,\'94 Bill said. \'93I talked about it and now I\'92m through. We won\'92t ever speak about it again. You don\'92t want to think about it. You might get back into it again.\'94 Nick had not thought about that. It had seemed so absolute. That was a thought. That made him feel better. \'93Sure,\'94 he said. \'93There\'92s always that danger.\'94 He felt happy now. There was not anything that was irrevocable. He might go into town Saturday night. Today was Thursday. \'93There\'92s always a chance,\'94 he said. \'93You\'92ll have to watch yourself,\'94 Bill said. \'93I\'92ll watch myself,\'94 he said. He felt happy. Nothing was finished. Nothing was ever lost. He would go into town on Saturday. He felt lighter, as he had felt before Bill started to talk about it. There was always a way out. \'93Let\'92s take the guns and go down to the point and look for your dad,\'94 Nick said. \'93All right.\'94 Bill took down the two shotguns from the rack on the wall. He opened a box of shells. Nick put on his Mackinaw coat and his shoes. His shoes were stiff from the drying. He was still quite drunk but his head was clear. \'93How do you feel?\'94 Nick asked. \'93Swell. I\'92ve just got a good edge on.\'94 Bill was buttoning up his sweater. \'93There\'92s no use getting drunk.\'94 \'93No. We ought to get outdoors.\'94 They stepped out the door. The wind was blowing a gale. \'93The birds will lie right down in the grass with this,\'94 Nick said. They struck down toward the orchard. \'93I saw a woodcock this morning,\'94 Bill said. \'93Maybe we\'92ll jump him,\'94 Nick said. \'93You can\'92t shoot in this wind,\'94 Bill said. Outside now the Marge business was no longer so tragic. It was not even very important. The wind blew everything like that away. \'93It\'92s coming right off the big lake,\'94 Nick said. Against the wind they heard the thud of a shotgun. \'93That\'92s dad,\'94 Bill said. \'93He\'92s down in the swamp.\'94 \'93Let\'92s cut down that way,\'94 Nick said. \'93Let\'92s cut across the lower meadow and see if we jump anything,\'94 Bill said. \'93All right,\'94 Nick said. None of it was important now. The wind blew it out of his head. Still he could always go into town Saturday night. It was a good thing to have in reserve. CHAPTER V They shot the six cabinet ministers at half-past six in the morning against the wall of a hospital. There were pools of water in the courtyard. There were wet dead leaves on the paving of the courtyard. It rained hard. All the shutters of the hospital were nailed shut. One of the ministers was sick with typhoid. Two soldiers carried him downstairs and out into the rain. They tried to hold him up against the wall but he sat down in a puddle of water. The other five stood very quietly against the wall. Finally the of icer told the soldiers it was no good trying to make him stand up. When they fired the first volley he was sitting down in the water with his head on his knees. The Battler NICK STOOD UP. HE WAS ALL RIGHT. HE looked up the track at the lights of the caboose going out of sight around the curve. There was water on both sides of the track, then tamarack swamp. He felt of his knee. The pants were torn and the skin was barked. His hands were scraped and there were sand and cinders driven up under his nails. He went over to the edge of the track down the little slope to the water and washed his hands. He washed them carefully in the cold water, getting the dirt out from the nails. He squatted down and bathed his knee. That lousy crut of a brakeman. He would get him some day. He would know him again. That was a fine way to act. \'93Come here, kid,\'94 he said. \'93I got something for you.\'94 He had fallen for it. What a lousy kid thing to have done. They would never suck him in that way again. \'93Come here, kid, I got something for you.\'94 Then wham and he lit on his hands and knees beside the track. Nick rubbed his eye. There was a big bump coming up. He would have a black eye, all right. It ached already. That son of a crutting brakeman. He touched the bump over his eye with his fingers. Oh, well, it was only a black eye. That was all he had gotten out of it. Cheap at the price. He wished he could see it. Could not see it looking into the water, though. It was dark and he was a long way off from anywhere. He wiped his hands on his trousers and stood up, then climbed the embankment to the rails. He started up the track. It was well ballasted and made easy walking, sand and gravel packed between the ties, solid walking. The smooth roadbed like a causeway went on ahead through the swamp. Nick walked along. He must get to somewhere. Nick had swung on to the freight train when it slowed down for the yards outside of Walton Junction. The train, with Nick on it, had passed through Kalkaska as it started to get dark. Now he must be nearly to Mancelona. Three or four miles of swamp. He stepped along the track, walking so he kept on the ballast between the ties, the swamp ghostly in the rising mist. His eye ached and he was hungry. He kept on hiking, putting the miles of track back of him. The swamp was all the same on both sides of the track. Ahead there was a bridge. Nick crossed it, his boots ringing hollow on the iron. Down below the water showed black between the slits of ties. Nick kicked a loose spike and it dropped into the water. Beyond the bridge were hills. It was high and dark on both sides of the track. Up the track Nick saw a fire. He came up the track toward the fire carefully. It was off to one side of the track, below the railway embankment. He had only seen the light from it. The track came out through a cut and where the fire was burning the country opened out and fell away into woods. Nick dropped carefully down the embankment and cut into the woods to come up to the fire through the trees. It was a beechwood forest and the fallen beechnut burrs were under his shoes as he walked between the trees. The fire was bright now, just at the edge of the trees. There was a man sitting by it. Nick waited behind the tree and watched. The man looked to be alone. He was sitting there with his head in his hands looking at the fire. Nick stepped out and walked into the firelight. The man sat there looking into the fire. When Nick stopped quite close to him he did not move. \'93Hello!\'94 Nick said. The man looked up. \'93Where did you get the shiner?\'94 he said. \'93A brakeman busted me.\'94 \'93Off the through freight?\'94 \'93Yes.\'94 \'93I saw the bastard,\'94 the man said. \'93He went through here \'92bout an hour and a half ago. He was walking along the top of the cars slapping his arms and singing.\'94 \'93The bastard!\'94 \'93It must have made him feel good to bust you,\'94 the man said seriously. \'93I\'92ll bust him.\'94 \'93Get him with a rock sometime when he\'92s going through,\'94 the man advised. \'93I\'92ll get him.\'94 \'93You\'92re a tough one, aren\'92t you?\'94 \'93No,\'94 Nick answered. \'93All you kids are tough.\'94 \'93You got to be tough,\'94 Nick said. \'93That\'92s what I said.\'94 The man looked at Nick and smiled. In the firelight Nick saw that his face was misshapen. His nose was sunken, his eyes were slits, he had queer-shaped lips. Nick did not perceive all this at once, he only saw the man\'92s face was queerly formed and mutilated. It was like putty in color. Dead looking in the firelight. \'93Don\'92t you like my pan?\'94 the man asked. Nick was embarrassed. \'93Sure,\'94 he said. \'93Look here!\'94 the man took off his cap. He had only one ear. It was thickened and tight against the side of his head. Where the other ear should have been there was a stump. \'93Ever see one like that?\'94 \'93No,\'94 said Nick. It made him a little sick. \'93I could take it,\'94 the man said. \'93Don\'92t you think I could take it, kid?\'94 \'93You bet!\'94 \'93They all bust their hands on me,\'94 the little man said. \'93They couldn\'92t hurt me.\'94 He looked at Nick. \'93Sit down,\'94 he said. \'93Want to eat?\'94 \'93Don\'92t bother,\'94 Nick said. \'93I\'92m going on to the town.\'94 \'93Listen!\'94 the man said. \'93Call me Ad.\'94 \'93Sure!\'94 \'93Listen,\'94 the little man said. \'93I\'92m not quite right.\'94 \'93What\'92s the matter?\'94 \'93I\'92m crazy.\'94 He put on his cap. Nick felt like laughing. \'93You\'92re all right,\'94 he said. \'93No, I\'92m not. I\'92m crazy. Listen, you ever been crazy?\'94 \'93No,\'94 Nick said. \'93How does it get you?\'94 \'93I don\'92t know,\'94 Ad said. \'93When you got it you don\'92t know about it. You know me, don\'92t you?\'94 \'93No.\'94 \'93I\'92m Ad Francis.\'94 \'93Honest to God?\'94 \'93Don\'92t you believe it?\'94 \'93Yes.\'94 Nick knew it must be true. \'93You know how I beat them?\'94 \'93No,\'94 Nick said. \'93My heart\'92s slow. It only beats forty a minute. Feel it.\'94 Nick hesitated. \'93Come on,\'94 the man took hold of his hand. \'93Take hold of my wrist. Put your fingers there.\'94 The little man\'92s wrist was thick and the muscles bulged above the bone. Nick felt the slow pumping under his fingers. \'93Got a watch?\'94 \'93No.\'94 \'93Neither have I,\'94 Ad said. \'93It ain\'92t any good if you haven\'92t got a watch.\'94 Nick dropped his wrist. \'93Listen,\'94 Ad Francis said. \'93Take ahold again. You count and I\'92ll count up to sixty.\'94 Feeling the slow hard throb under his fingers Nick started to count. He heard the little man counting slowly, one, two, three, four, five, and on\'97aloud. \'93Sixty,\'94 Ad finished. \'93That\'92s a minute. What did you make it?\'94 \'93Forty,\'94 Nick said. \'93That\'92s right,\'94 Ad said happily. \'93She never speeds up.\'94 A man dropped down the railroad embankment and came across the clearing to the fire. \'93Hello, Bugs!\'94 Ad said. \'93Hello!\'94 Bugs answered. It was a negro\'92s voice Nick knew from the way he walked that he was a negro. He stood with his back to them, bending over the fire. He straightened up. \'93This is my pal Bugs,\'94 Ad said. \'93He\'92s crazy, too.\'94 \'93Glad to meet you,\'94 Bugs said. \'93Where you say you\'92re from?\'94 \'93Chicago,\'94 Nick said. \'93That\'92s a fine town,\'94 the negro said. \'93I didn\'92t catch your name.\'94 \'93Adams. Nick Adams.\'94 \'93He says he\'92s never been crazy, Bugs,\'94 Ad said. \'93He\'92s got a lot coming to him,\'94 the negro said. He was unwrapping a package by the fire. \'93When are we going to eat, Bugs?\'94 the prizefighter asked. \'93Right away.\'94 \'93Are you hungry, Nick?\'94 \'93Hungry as hell.\'94 \'93Hear that, Bugs?\'94 \'93I hear most of what goes on.\'94 \'93That ain\'92t what I asked you.\'94 \'93Yes. I heard what the gentleman said.\'94 Into a skillet he was laying slices of ham. As the skillet grew hot the grease sputtered and Bugs, crouching on long nigger legs over the fire, turned the ham and broke eggs into the skillet, tipping it from side to side to baste the eggs with the hot fat. \'93Will you cut some bread out of that bag, Mister Adams?\'94 Bugs turned from the fire. \'93Sure.\'94 Nick reached in the bag and brought out a loaf of bread. He cut six slices. Ad watched him and leaned forward. \'93Let me take your knife, Nick,\'94 he said. \'93No, you don\'92t,\'94 the negro said. \'93Hang onto your knife, Mister Adams.\'94 The prizefighter sat back. \'93Will you bring me the bread, Mister Adams?\'94 Bugs asked. Nick brought it over. \'93Do you like to dip your bread in the ham fat?\'94 the negro asked. \'93You bet!\'94 \'93Perhaps we\'92d better wait until later. It\'92s better at the finish of the meal. Here.\'94 The negro picked up a slice of ham and laid it on one of the pieces of bread, then slid an egg on top of it. \'93Just close that sandwich, will you, please, and give it to Mister Francis.\'94 Ad took the sandwich and started eating. \'93Watch out how that egg runs,\'94 the negro warned. \'93This is for you, Mister Adams. The remainder for myself.\'94 Nick bit into the sandwich. The negro was sitting opposite him beside Ad. The hot fried ham and eggs tasted wonderful. \'93Mister Adams is right hungry,\'94 the negro said. The little man whom Nick knew by name as a former champion fighter was silent. He had said nothing since the negro had spoken about the knife. \'93May I offer you a slice of bread dipped right in the hot ham fat?\'94 Bugs said. \'93Thanks a lot.\'94 The little white man looked at Nick. \'93Will you have some, Mister Adolph Francis?\'94 Bugs offered from the skillet. Ad did not answer. He was looking at Nick. \'93Mister Francis?\'94 came the nigger\'92s soft voice. Ad did not answer. He was looking at Nick. \'93I spoke to you. Mister Francis,\'94 the nigger said softly. Ad kept on looking at Nick. He had his cap down over his eyes. Nick felt nervous. \'93How the hell do you get that way?\'94 came out from under the cap sharply at Nick. \'93Who the hell do you think you are? You\'92re a snotty bastard. You come in here where nobody asks you and eat a man\'92s food and when he asks to borrow a knife you get snotty.\'94 He glared at Nick, his face was white and his eyes almost out of sight under the cap. \'93You\'92re a hot sketch. Who the hell asked you to butt in here?\'94 \'93Nobody.\'94 \'93You\'92re damn right nobody did. Nobody asked you to stay either. You come in here and act snotty about my face and smoke my cigars and drink my liquor and then talk snotty. Where the hell do you think you get off?\'94 Nick said nothing. Ad stood up. \'93I\'92ll tell you, you yellow-livered Chicago bastard. You\'92re going to get your can knocked off. Do you get that?\'94 Nick stepped back. The little man came toward him slowly, stepping flat-footed forward, his left foot stepping forward, his right dragging up to it. \'93Hit me,\'94 he moved his head. \'93Try and hit me.\'94 \'93I don\'92t want to hit you.\'94 \'93You won\'92t get out of it that way. You\'92re going to take a beating, see? Come on and lead at me.\'94 \'93Cut it out,\'94 Nick said. \'93All right, then, you bastard.\'94 The little man looked down at Nick\'92s feet. As he looked down the negro, who had followed behind him as he moved away from the fire, set himself and tapped him across the base of the skull. He fell forward and Bugs dropped the cloth-wrapped blackjack on the grass. The little man lay there, his face in the grass. The negro picked him up, his head hanging, and carried him to the fire. His face looked bad, the eyes open. Bugs laid him down gently. \'93Will you bring me the water in the bucket, Mister Adams,\'94 he said. \'93I\'92m afraid I hit him just a little hard.\'94 The negro splashed water with his hand on the man\'92s face and pulled his ears gently. The eyes closed. Bugs stood up. \'93He\'92s all right,\'94 he said. \'93There\'92s nothing to worry about. I\'92m sorry, Mister Adams.\'94 \'93It\'92s all right.\'94 Nick was looking down at the little man. He saw the blackjack on the grass and picked it up. It had a flexible handle and was limber in his hand. It was made of worn black leather with a handkerchief wrapped around the heavy end. \'93That\'92s a whalebone handle,\'94 the negro smiled. \'93They don\'92t make them any more. I didn\'92t know how well you could take care of yourself and, anyway, I didn\'92t want you to hurt him or mark him up no more than he is.\'94 The negro smiled again. \'93You hurt him yourself.\'94 \'93I know how to do it. He won\'92t remember nothing of it. I have to do it to change him when he gets that way.\'94 Nick was still looking down at the little man, lying, his eyes closed in the firelight. Bugs put some wood on the fire. \'93Don\'92t you worry about him none, Mister Adams. I seen him like this plenty of times before.\'94 \'93What made him crazy?\'94 Nick asked. \'93Oh, a lot of things,\'94 the negro answered from the fire. \'93Would you like a cup of this coffee, Mister Adams?\'94 He handed Nick the cup and smoothed the coat he had placed under the unconscious man\'92s head. \'93He took too many beatings, for one thing,\'94 the negro sipped the coffee. \'93But that just made him sort of simple. Then his sister was his manager and they was always being written up in the papers all about brothers and sisters and how she loved her brother and how he loved his sister, and then they got married in New York and that made a lot of unpleasantness.\'94 \'93I remember about it.\'94 \'93Sure. Of course they wasn\'92t brother and sister no more than a rabbit, but there was a lot of people didn\'92t like it either way and they commenced to have disagreements, and one day she just went off and never come back.\'94 He drank the coffee and wiped his lips with the pink palm of his hand. \'93He just went crazy. Will you have some more coffee, Mister Adams?\'94 \'93Thanks.\'94 \'93I seen her a couple of times,\'94 the negro went on. \'93She was an awful good-looking woman. Looked enough like him to be twins. He wouldn\'92t be bad-looking without his face all busted.\'94 He stopped. The story seemed to be over. \'93I met him in jail,\'94 the negro said. \'93He was busting people all the time after she went away and they put him in jail. I was in for cuttin\'92 a man.\'94 He smiled, and went on soft-voiced: \'93Right away I liked him and when I got out I looked him up. He likes to think I\'92m crazy and I don\'92t mind. I like to be with him and I like seeing the country and I don\'92t have to commit no larceny to do it. I like living like a gentleman.\'94 \'93What do you all do?\'94 Nick asked. \'93Oh, nothing. Just move around. He\'92s got money.\'94 \'93He must have made a lot of money.\'94 \'93Sure. He spent all his money, though. Or they took it away from him. She sends him money.\'94 He poked up the fire. \'93She\'92s a mighty fine woman,\'94 he said. \'93She looks enough like him to be his own twin.\'94 The negro looked over at the little man, lying breathing heavily. His blond hair was down over his forehead. His mutilated face looked childish in repose. \'93I can wake him up any time now, Mister Adams. If you don\'92t mind I wish you\'92d sort of pull out. I don\'92t like to not be hospitable, but it might disturb him back again to see you. I hate to have to thump him and it\'92s the only thing to do when he gets started. I have to sort of keep him away from people. You don\'92t mind, do you, Mister Adams? No, don\'92t thank me, Mister Adams. I\'92d have warned you about him but he seemed to have taken such a liking to you and I thought things were going to be all right. You\'92ll hit a town about two miles up the track. Mancelona they call it. Good-bye. I wish we could ask you to stay the night but it\'92s just out of the question. Would you like to take some of that ham and some bread with you? No? You better take a sandwich,\'94 all this in a low, smooth, polite nigger voice. \'93Good. Well, good-bye, Mister Adams. Good-bye and good luck!\'94 Nick walked away from the fire across the clearing to the railway tracks. Out of the range of the fire he listened. The low soft voice of the negro was talking. Nick could not hear the words. Then he heard the little man say, \'93I got an awful headache, Bugs.\'94 \'93You\'92ll feel better. Mister Francis,\'94 the negro\'92s voice soothed. \'93Just you drink a cup of this hot coffee.\'94 Nick climbed the embankment and started up the track. He found he had a ham sandwich in his hand and put it in his pocket. Looking back from the mounting grade before the track curved into the hills he could see the firelight in the clearing. CHAPTER VI Nick sat against the wall of the church where they had dragged him to be clear of machine-gun fire in the street. Both legs stuck out awkwardly. He had been hit in the spine. His face was sweaty and dirty. The sun shone on his face. The day was very hot. Rinaldi, big backed, his equipment sprawling, lay face downward against the wall. Nick looked straight ahead brilliantly. The pink wall of the house opposite had fallen out from the roof, and an iron bedstead hung twisted toward the street. Two Austrian dead lay in the rubble in the shade of the house. Up the street were other dead. Things were getting forward in the town. It was going well. Stretcher bearers would be along any time now. Nick turned his head carefully and looked at Rinaldi . \'93Senta Rinaldi. Senta. You and me we\'92ve made a separate peace.\'94 Rinaldi lay still in the sun breathing with dif iculty. \'93Not patriots.\'94 Nick turned his head carefully away smiling sweatily. Rinaldi was a disappointing audience. A Very Short Story ONE HOT EVENING IN PADUA THEY CARried him up onto the roof and he could look out over the top of the town. There were chimney swifts in the sky. After a while it got dark and the searchlights came out. The others went down and took the bottles with them. He and Luz could hear them below on the balcony. Luz sat on the bed. She was cool and fresh in the hot night. Luz stayed on night duty for three months. They were glad to let her. When they operated on him she prepared him for the operating table; and they had a joke about friend or enema. He went under the an\'e6sthetic holding tight on to himself so he would not blab about anything during the silly, talky time. After he got on crutches he used to take the temperatures so Luz would not have to get up from the bed. There were only a few patients, and they all knew about it. They all liked Luz. As he walked back along the halls he thought of Luz in his bed. Before he went back to the front they went into the Duomo and prayed. It was dim and quiet, and there were other people praying. They wanted to get married, but there was not enough time for the banns, and neither of them had birth certificates. They felt as though they were married, but they wanted every one to know about it, and to make it so they could not lose it. Luz wrote him many letters that he never got until after the armistice. Fifteen came in a bunch to the front and he sorted them by the dates and read them all straight through. They were all about the hospital, and how much she loved him and how it was impossible to get along without him and how terrible it was missing him at night. After the armistice they agreed he should go home to get a job so they might be married. Luz would not come home until he had a good job and could come to New York to meet her. It was understood he would not drink, and he did not want to see his friends or any one in the States. Only to get a job and be married. On the train from Padua to Milan they quarrelled about her not being willing to come home at once. When they had to say good-bye, in the station at Milan, they kissed good-bye, but were not finished with the quarrel. He felt sick about saying good-bye like that. He went to America on a boat from Genoa. Luz went back to Pordenone to open a hospital. It was lonely and rainy there, and there was a battalion of arditi quartered in the town. Living in the muddy, rainy town in the winter, the major of the battalion made love to Luz, and she had never known Italians before, and finally wrote to the States that theirs had been only a boy and girl affair. She was sorry, and she knew he would probably not be able to understand, but might some day forgive her, and be grateful to her, and she expected, absolutely unexpectedly, to be married in the spring. She loved him as always, but she realized now it was only a boy and girl love. She hoped he would have a great career, and believed in him absolutely. She knew it was for the best. The major did not marry her in the spring, or any other time. Luz never got an answer to the letter to Chicago about it. A short time after he contracted gonorrhea from a sales girl in a loop department store while riding in a taxicab through Lincoln Park. CHAPTER VII While the bombardment was knocking the trench to pieces at Fossalta, he lay very flat and sweated and prayed oh jesus christ get me out of here. Dear jesus please get me out. Christ please please please christ. If you\'92ll only keep me from getting killed I\'92ll do anything you say. I believe in you and I\'92ll tell every one in the world that you are the only one that matters. Please please dear jesus. The shelling moved further up the line. We went to work on the trench and in the morning the sun came up and the day was hot and muggy and cheerful and quiet. The next night back at Mestre he did not tell the girl he went upstairs with at the Villa Rossa about Jesus. And he never told anybody. Soldier\'92s Home KREBS WENT TO THE WAR FROM A METHodist college in Kansas. There is a picture which shows him among his fraternity brothers, all of them wearing exactly the same height and style collar. He enlisted in the Marines in 1917 and did not return to the United States until the second division returned from the Rhine in the summer of 1919. There is a picture which shows him on the Rhine with two German girls and another corporal. Krebs and the corporal look too big for their uniforms. The German girls are not beautiful. The Rhine does not show in the picture. By the time Krebs returned to his home town in Oklahoma the greeting of heroes was over. He came back much too late. The men from the town who had been drafted had all been welcomed elaborately on their return. There had been a great deal of hysteria. Now the reaction had set in. People seemed to think it was rather ridiculous for Krebs to be getting back so late, years after the war was over. At first Krebs, who had been at Belleau Wood, Soissons, the Champagne, St. Mihiel and in the Argonne did not want to talk about the war at all. Later he felt the need to talk but no one wanted to hear about it. His town had heard too many atrocity stories to be thrilled by actualities. Krebs found that to be listened to at all he had to lie, and after he had done this twice he, too, had a reaction against the war and against talking about it. A distaste for everything that had happened to him in the war set in because of the lies he had told. All of the times that had been able to make him feel cool and clear inside himself when he thought of them; the times so long back when he had done the one thing, the only thing for a man to do, easily and naturally, when he might have done something else, now lost their cool, valuable quality and then were lost themselves. His lies were quite unimportant lies and consisted in attributing to himself things other men had seen, done or heard of, and stating as facts certain apocryphal incidents familiar to all soldiers. Even his lies were not sensational at the pool room. His acquaintances, who had heard detailed accounts of German women found chained to machine guns in the Argonne forest and who could not comprehend, or were barred by their patriotism from interest in, any German machine gunners who were not chained, were not thrilled by his stories. Krebs acquired the nausea in regard to experience that is the result of untruth or exaggeration, and when he occasionally met another man who had really been a soldier and they talked a few minutes in the dressing room at a dance he fell into the easy pose of the old soldier among other soldiers: that he had been badly, sickeningly frightened all the time. In this way he lost everything. During this time, it was late summer, he was sleeping late in bed, getting up to walk down town to the library to get a book, eating lunch at home, reading on the front porch until he became bored and then walking down through the town to spend the hottest hours of the day in the cool dark of the pool room. He loved to play pool. In the evening he practised on his clarinet, strolled down town, read and went to bed. He was still a hero to his two young sisters. His mother would have given him breakfast in bed if he had wanted it. She often came in when he was in bed and asked him to tell her about the war, but her attention always wandered. His father was non-committal. Before Krebs went away to the war he had never been allowed to drive the family motor car. His father was in the real estate business and always wanted the car to be at his command when he required it to take clients out into the country to show them a piece of farm property. The car always stood outside the First National Bank building where his father had an office on the second floor. Now, after the war, it was still the same car. Nothing was changed in the town except that the young girls had grown up. But they lived in such a complicated world of already defined alliances and shifting feuds that Krebs did not feel the energy or the courage to break into it. He liked to look at them, though. There were so many good-looking young girls. Most of them had their hair cut short. When he went away only little girls wore their hair like that or girls that were fast. They all wore sweaters and shirt waists with round Dutch collars. It was a pattern. He liked to look at them from the front porch as they walked on the other side of the street. He liked to watch them walking under the shade of the trees. He liked the round Dutch collars above their sweaters. He liked their silk stockings and flat shoes. He liked their bobbed hair and the way they walked. When he was in town their appeal to him was not very strong. He did not like them when he saw them in the Greek\'92s ice cream parlor. He did not want them themselves really. They were too complicated. There was something else. Vaguely he wanted a girl but he did not want to have to work to get her. He would have liked to have a girl but he did not want to have to spend a long time getting her. He did not want to get into the intrigue and the politics. He did not want to have to do any courting. He did not want to tell any more lies. It wasn\'92t worth it. He did not want any consequences. He did not want any consequences ever again. He wanted to live along without consequences. Besides he did not really need a girl. The army had taught him that. It was all right to pose as though you had to have a girl. Nearly everybody did that. But it wasn\'92t true. You did not need a girl. That was the funny thing. First a fellow boasted how girls mean nothing to him, that he never thought of them, that they could not touch him. Then a fellow boasted that he could not get along without girls, that he had to have them all the time, that he could not go to sleep without them. That was all a lie. It was all a lie both ways. You did not need a girl unless you thought about them. He learned that in the army. Then sooner or later you always got one. When you were really ripe for a girl you always got one. You did not have to think about it. Sooner or later it would come. He had learned that in the army. Now he would have liked a girl if she had come to him and not wanted to talk. But here at home it was all too complicated. He knew he could never get through it all again. It was not worth the trouble. That was the thing about French girls and German girls. There was not all this talking. You couldn\'92t talk much and you did not need to talk. It was simple and you were friends. He thought about France and then he began to think about Germany. On the whole he had liked Germany better. He did not want to leave Germany. He did not want to come home. Still, he had come home. He sat on the front porch. He liked the girls that were walking along the other side of the street. He liked the look of them much better than the French girls or the German girls. But the world they were in was not the world he was in. He would like to have one of them. But it was not worth it. They were such a nice pattern. He liked the pattern. It was exciting. But he would not go through all the talking. He did not want one badly enough. He liked to look at them all, though. It was not worth it. Not now when things were getting good again. He sat there on the porch reading a book on the war. It was a history and he was reading about all the engagements he had been in. It was the most interesting reading he had ever done. He wished there were more maps. He looked forward with a good feeling to reading all the really good histories when they would come out with good detail maps. Now he was really learning about the war. He had been a good soldier. That made a difference. One morning after he had been home about a month his mother came into his bedroom and sat on the bed. She smoothed her apron. \'93I had a talk with your father last night, Harold,\'94 she said, \'93and he is willing for you to take the car out in the evenings.\'94 \'93Yeah?\'94 said Krebs, who was not fully awake. \'93Take the car out? Yeah?\'94 \'93Yes. Your father has felt for some time that you should be able to take the car out in the evenings whenever you wished but we only talked it over last night.\'94 \'93I\'92ll bet you made him,\'94 Krebs said. \'93No. It was your father\'92s suggestion that we talk the matter over.\'94 \'93Yeah. I\'92ll bet you made him,\'94 Krebs sat up in bed. \'93Will you come down to breakfast, Harold?\'94 his mother said. \'93As soon as I get my clothes on,\'94 Krebs said. His mother went out of the room and he could hear her frying something downstairs while he washed, shaved and dressed to go down into the dining-room for breakfast. While he was eating breakfast his sister brought in the mail. \'93Well, Hare,\'94 she said. \'93You old sleepy-head. What do you ever get up for?\'94 Krebs looked at her. He liked her. She was his best sister. \'93Have you got the paper?\'94 he asked. She handed him The Kansas City Star and he shucked off its brown wrapper and opened it to the sporting page. He folded The Star open and propped it against the water pitcher with his cereal dish to steady it, so he could read while he ate. \'93Harold,\'94 his mother stood in the kitchen doorway, \'93Harold, please don\'92t muss up the paper. Your father can\'92t read his Star if it\'92s been mussed.\'94 \'93I won\'92t muss it,\'94 Krebs said. His sister sat down at the table and watched him while he read. \'93We\'92re playing indoor over at school this afternoon,\'94 she said. \'93I\'92m going to pitch.\'94 \'93Good,\'94 said Krebs. \'93How\'92s the old wing?\'94 \'93I can pitch better than lots of the boys. I tell them all you taught me. The other girls aren\'92t much good.\'94 \'93Yeah?\'94 said Krebs. \'93I tell them all you\'92re my beau. Aren\'92t you my beau, Hare?\'94 \'93You bet.\'94 \'93Couldn\'92t your brother really be your beau just because he\'92s your brother?\'94 \'93I don\'92t know.\'94 \'93Sure you know. Couldn\'92t you be my beau, Hare, if I was old enough and if you wanted to?\'94 \'93Sure. You\'92re my girl now.\'94 \'93Am I really your girl?\'94 \'93Sure.\'94 \'93Do you love me?\'94 \'93Uh, huh.\'94 \'93Will you love me always?\'94 \'93Sure.\'94 \'93Will you come over and watch me play indoor?\'94 \'93Maybe.\'94 \'93Aw, Hare, you don\'92t love me. If you loved me, you\'92d want to come over and watch me play indoor.\'94 Krebs\'92s mother came into the dining-room from the kitchen. She carried a plate with two fried eggs and some crisp bacon on it and a plate of buckwheat cakes. \'93You run along, Helen,\'94 she said. \'93I want to talk to Harold.\'94 She put the eggs and bacon down in front of him and brought in a jug of maple syrup for the buckwheat cakes. Then she sat down across the table from Krebs. \'93I wish you\'92d put down the paper a minute, Harold,\'94 she said. Krebs took down the paper and folded it. \'93Have you decided what you are going to do yet, Harold?\'94 his mother said, taking off her glasses. \'93No,\'94 said Krebs. \'93Don\'92t you think it\'92s about time?\'94 His mother did not say this in a mean way. She seemed worried. \'93I hadn\'92t thought about it,\'94 Krebs said. \'93God has some work for every one to do,\'94 his mother said. \'93There can be no idle hands in His Kingdom.\'94 \'93I\'92m not in His Kingdom,\'94 Krebs said. \'93We are all of us in His Kingdom.\'94 Krebs felt embarrassed and resentful as always. \'93I\'92ve worried about you so much, Harold,\'94 his mother went on. \'93I know the temptations you must have been exposed to. I know how weak men are. I know what your own dear grandfather, my own father, told us about the Civil War and I have prayed for you. I pray for you all day long, Harold.\'94 Krebs looked at the bacon fat hardening on his plate. \'93Your father is worried, too,\'94 his mother went on. \'93He thinks you have lost your ambition, that you haven\'92t got a definite aim in life. Charley Simmons, who is just your age, has a good job and is going to be married. The boys are all settling down; they\'92re all determined to get somewhere; you can see that boys like Charley Simmons are on their way to being really a credit to the community.\'94 Krebs said nothing. \'93Don\'92t look that way, Harold,\'94 his mother said. \'93You know we love you and I want to tell you for your own good how matters stand. Your father does not want to hamper your freedom. He thinks you should be allowed to drive the car. If you want to take some of the nice girls out riding with you, we are only too pleased. We want you to enjoy yourself. But you are going to have to settle down to work, Harold. Your father doesn\'92t care what you start in at. All work is honorable as he says. But you\'92ve got to make a start at something. He asked me to speak to you this morning and then you can stop in and see him at his office.\'94 \'93Is that all?\'94 Krebs said. \'93Yes. Don\'92t you love your mother, dear boy?\'94 \'93No,\'94 Krebs said. His mother looked at him across the table. Her eyes were shiny. She started crying. \'93I don\'92t love anybody,\'94 Krebs said. It wasn\'92t any good. He couldn\'92t tell her, he couldn\'92t make her see it. It was silly to have said it. He had only hurt her. He went over and took hold of her arm. She was crying with her head in her hands. \'93I didn\'92t mean it,\'94 he said. \'93I was just angry at something. I didn\'92t mean I didn\'92t love you.\'94 His mother went on crying. Krebs put his arm on her shoulder. \'93Can\'92t you believe me, mother?\'94 His mother shook her head. \'93Please, please, mother. Please believe me.\'94 \'93All right,\'94 his mother said chokily. She looked up at him. \'93I believe you, Harold.\'94 Krebs kissed her hair. She put her face up to him. \'93I\'92m your mother,\'94 she said. \'93I held you next to my heart when you were a tiny baby.\'94 Krebs felt sick and vaguely nauseated. \'93I know, Mummy,\'94 he said. \'93I\'92ll try and be a good boy for you.\'94 \'93Would you kneel and pray with me, Harold?\'94 his mother asked. They knelt down beside the dining-room table and Krebs\'92s mother prayed. \'93Now, you pray, Harold,\'94 she said. \'93I can\'92t,\'94 Krebs said. \'93Try, Harold.\'94 \'93I can\'92t.\'94 \'93Do you want me to pray for you?\'94 \'93Yes.\'94 So his mother prayed for him and then they stood up and Krebs kissed his mother and went out of the house. He had tried so to keep his life from being complicated. Still, none of it had touched him. He had felt sorry for his mother and she had made him lie. He would go to Kansas City and get a job and she would feel all right about it. There would be one more scene maybe before he got away. He would not go down to his father\'92s office. He would miss that one. He wanted his life to go smoothly. It had just gotten going that way. Well, that was all over now, anyway. He would go over to the schoolyard and watch Helen play indoor baseball. CHAPTER VIII At two o\'92clock in the morning two Hungarians got into a cigar store at Fifteenth Street and Grand Avenue. Drevitts and Boyle drove up from the Fifteenth Street police station in a Ford. The Hungarians were backing their wagon out of an alley. Boyle shot one of the seat of the wagon and one out of the wagon box. Drevitts got frightened when he found they were both dead. Hell Jimmy, he said, you oughtn\'92t to have done it. There\'92s liable to be a hell of a lot of trouble. \'97They\'92re crooks, ain\'92t they? said Boyle. They\'92re wops, ain\'92t they? Who the hell is going to make any trouble? \'97That\'92s all right maybe this time, said Drevitts, but how did you know they were wops when you bumped them? Wops, said Boyle, I can tell wops a mile of . The Revolutionist IN 1919 HE WAS TRAVELLING ON THE railroads in Italy, carrying a square of oilcloth from the headquarters of the party written in indelible pencil and saying here was a comrade who had suffered very much under the Whites in Budapest and requesting comrades to aid him in any way. He used this instead of a ticket. He was very shy and quite young and the train men passed him on from one crew to another. He had no money, and they fed him behind the counter in railway eating houses. He was delighted with Italy. It was a beautiful country, he said. The people were all kind. He had been in many towns, walked much, and seen many pictures. Giotto, Masaccio, and Piero della Francesca he bought reproductions of and carried them wrapped in a copy of Avanti. Mantegna he did not like. He reported at Bologna, and I took him with me up into the Romagna where it was necessary I go to see a man. We had a good trip together. It was early September and the country was pleasant. He was a Magyar, a very nice boy and very shy. Horthy\'92s men had done some bad things to him. He talked about it a little. In spite of Hungary, he believed altogether in the world revolution. \'93But how is the movement going in Italy?\'94 he asked. \'93Very badly,\'94 I said. \'93But it will go better,\'94 he said. \'93You have everything here. It is the one country that every one is sure of. It will be the starting point of everything.\'94 I did not say anything. At Bologna he said good-bye to us to go on the train to Milano and then to Aosta to walk over the pass into Switzerland. I spoke to him about the Mantegnas in Milano. \'93No,\'94 he said, very shyly, he did not like Mantegna. I wrote out for him where to eat in Milano and the addresses of comrades. He thanked me very much, but his mind was already looking forward to walking over the pass. He was very eager to walk over the pass while the weather held good. He loved the mountains in the autumn. The last I heard of him the Swiss had him in jail near Sion. CHAPTER IX The first matador got the horn through his sword hand and the crowd hooted him. The second matador slipped and the bull caught him through the belly and he hung on to the horn with one hand and held the other tight against the place, and the bull rammed him wham against the wall and the horn came out, and he lay in the sand, and then got up like crazy drunk and tried to slug the men carrying him away and yelled for his sword but he fainted. The kid came out and had to kill five bulls because you can\'92t have more than three matadors, and the last bull he was so tired he couldn\'92t get the sword in. He couldn\'92t hardly lift his arm. He tried five times and the crowd was quiet because it was a good bull and it looked like him or the bull and then he finally made it. He sat down in the sand and puked and they held a cape over him while the crowd hollered and threw things down into the bull ring. Mr. and Mrs. Elliot MR. AND MRS. ELLIOT TRIED VERY HARD to have a baby. They tried as often as Mrs. Elliot could stand it. They tried in Boston after they were married and they tried coming over on the boat. They did not try very often on the boat because Mrs. Elliot was quite sick. She was sick and when she was sick she was sick as Southern women are sick. That is women from the Southern part of the United States. Like all Southern women Mrs. Elliot disintegrated very quickly under sea sickness, travelling at night, and getting up too early in the morning. Many of the people on the boat took her for Elliot\'92s mother. Other people who knew they were married believed she was going to have a baby. In reality she was forty years old. Her years had been precipitated suddenly when she started travelling. She had seemed much younger, in fact she had seemed not to have any age at all, when Elliot had married her after several weeks of making love to her after knowing her for a long time in her tea shop before he had kissed her one evening. Hubert Elliot was taking postgraduate work in law at Harvard when he was married. He was a poet with an income of nearly ten thousand dollars a year. He wrote very long poems very rapidly. He was twenty-five years old and had never gone to bed with a woman until he married Mrs. Elliot. He wanted to keep himself pure so that he could bring to his wife the same purity of mind and body that he expected of her. He called it to himself living straight. He had been in love with various girls before he kissed Mrs. Elliot and always told them sooner or later that he had led a clean life. Nearly all the girls lost interest in him. He was shocked and really horrified at the way girls would become engaged to and marry men whom they must know had dragged themselves through the gutter. He once tried to warn a girl he knew against a man of whom he had almost proof that he had been a rotter at college and a very unpleasant incident had resulted. Mrs. Elliot\'92s name was Cornelia. She had taught him to call her Calutina, which was her family nickname in the South. His mother cried when he brought Cornelia home after their marriage but brightened very much when she learned they were going to live abroad. Cornelia had said, \'93You dear sweet boy,\'94 and held him closer than ever when he had told her how he had kept himself clean for her. Cornelia was pure too. \'93Kiss me again like that,\'94 she said. Hubert explained to her that he had learned that way of kissing from hearing a fellow tell a story once. He was delighted with his experiment and they developed it as far as possible. Sometimes when they had been kissing together a long time, Cornelia would ask him to tell her again that he had kept himself really straight for her. The declaration always set her off again. At first Hubert had no idea of marrying Cornelia. He had never thought of her that way. She had been such a good friend of his, and then one day in the little back room of the shop they had been dancing to the gramophone while her girl friend was in the front of the shop and she had looked up into his eyes and he had kissed her. He could never remember just when it was decided that they were to be married. But they were married. They spent the night of the day they were married in a Boston hotel. They were both disappointed but finally Cornelia went to sleep. Hubert could not sleep and several times went out and walked up and down the corridor of the hotel in his new Jaeger bathrobe that he had bought for his wedding trip. As he walked he saw all the pairs of shoes, small shoes and big shoes, outside the doors of the hotel rooms. This set his heart to pounding and he hurried back to his own room but Cornelia was asleep. He did not like to waken her and soon everything was quite all right and he slept peacefully. The next day they called on his mother and the next day they sailed for Europe. It was possible to try to have a baby but Cornelia could not attempt it very often although they wanted a baby more than anything else in the world. They landed at Cherbourg and came to Paris. They tried to have a baby in Paris. Then they decided to go to Dijon where there was summer school and where a number of people who crossed on the boat with them had gone. They found there was nothing to do in Dijon. Hubert, however, was writing a great number of poems and Cornelia typed them for him. They were all very long poems. He was very severe about mistakes and would make her re-do an entire page if there was one mistake. She cried a good deal and they tried several times to have a baby before they left Dijon. They came to Paris and most of their friends from the boat came back too. They were tired of Dijon and anyway would now be able to say that after leaving Harvard or Columbia or Wabash they had studied at the University of Dijon down in the C\'f4te d\'92Or. Many of them would have preferred to go to Languedoc, Montpellier or Perpignan if there are universities there. But all those places are too far away. Dijon is only four and a half hours from Paris and there is a diner on the train. So they all sat around the Caf\'e9 du Dome, avoiding the Rotonde across the street because it is always so full of foreigners, for a few days and then the Elliots rented a ch\'e2teau in Touraine through an advertisement in the New York Herald. Elliot had a number of friends by now all of whom admired his poetry and Mrs. Elliot had prevailed upon him to send over to Boston for her girl friend who had been in the tea shop. Mrs. Elliot became much brighter after her girl friend came and they had many good cries together. The girl friend was several years older than Cornelia and called her Honey. She too came from a very old Southern family. The three of them, with several of Elliot\'92s friends who called him Hubie, went down to the ch\'e2teau in Touraine. They found Touraine to be a very flat hot country very much like Kansas. Elliot had nearly enough poems for a book now. He was going to bring it out in Boston and had already sent his check to, and made a contract with, a publisher. In a short time the friends began to drift back to Paris. Touraine had not turned out the way it looked when it started. Soon all the friends had gone off with a rich young and unmarried poet to a seaside resort near Trouville. There they were all very happy. Elliot kept on at the ch\'e2teau in Touraine because he had taken it for all summer. He and Mrs. Elliot tried very hard to have a baby in the big hot bedroom on the big, hard bed. Mrs. Elliot was learning the touch system on the typewriter, but she found that while it increased the speed it made more mistakes. The girl friend was now typing practically all of the manuscripts. She was very neat and efficient and seemed to enjoy it. Elliot had taken to drinking white wine and lived apart in his own room. He wrote a great deal of poetry during the night and in the morning looked very exhausted. Mrs. Elliot and the girl friend now slept together in the big medi\'e6val bed. They had many a good cry together. In the evening they all sat at dinner together in the garden under a plane tree and the hot evening wind blew and Elliot drank white wine and Mrs. Elliot and the girl friend made conversation and they were all quite happy. CHAPTER X They whack-whacked the white horse on the legs and he kneed himself up. The picador twisted the stirrups straight and pulled and hauled up into the saddle. The horse\'92s entrails hung down in a blue bunch and swung backward and forward as he began to canter, the monos whacking him on the back of his legs with the rods. He cantered jerkily along the barrera. He stopped stif and one of the monos held his bridle and walked him forward. The picador kicked in his spurs, leaned forward and shook his lance at the bull. Blood pumped regularly from between the horse\'92s front legs. He was nervously wobbly. The bull could not make up his mind to charge. Cat in the Rain THERE WERE ONLY TWO AMERICANS stopping at the hotel. They did not know any of the people they passed on the stairs on their way to and from their room. Their room was on the second floor facing the sea. It also faced the public garden and the war monument. There were big palms and green benches in the public garden. In the good weather there was always an artist with his easel. Artists liked the way the palms grew and the bright colors of the hotels facing the gardens and the sea. Italians came from a long way off to look up at the war monument. It was made of bronze and glistened in the rain. It was raining. The rain dripped from the palm trees. Water stood in pools on the gravel paths. The sea broke in a long line in the rain and slipped back down the beach to come up and break again in a long line in the rain. The motor cars were gone from the square by the war monument. Across the square in the doorway of the caf\'e9 a waiter stood looking out at the empty square. The American wife stood at the window looking out. Outside right under their window a cat was crouched under one of the dripping green tables. The cat was trying to make herself so compact that she would not be dripped on. \'93I\'92m going down and get that kitty,\'94 the American wife said. \'93I\'92ll do it,\'94 her husband offered from the bed. \'93No, I\'92ll get it. The poor kitty out trying to keep dry under a table.\'94 The husband went on reading, lying propped up with the two pillows at the foot of the bed. \'93Don\'92t get wet,\'94 he said. The wife went downstairs and the hotel owner stood up and bowed to her as she passed the office. His desk was at the far end of the office. He was an old man and very tall. \'93Il piove,\'94 the wife said. She liked the hotel-keeper. \'93S\'ec, s\'ec, Signera, brutto tempo. It\'92s very bad weather.\'94 He stood behind his desk in the far end of the dim room. The wife liked him. She liked the deadly serious way he received any complaints. She liked his dignity. She liked the way he wanted to serve her. She liked the way he felt about being a hotel-keeper. She liked his old, heavy face and big hands. Liking him she opened the door and looked out. It was raining harder. A man in a rubber cape was crossing the empty square to the caf\'e9. The cat would be around to the right. Perhaps she could go along under the eaves. As she stood in the doorway an umbrella opened behind her. It was the maid who looked after their room. \'93You must not get wet,\'94 she smiled, speaking Italian. Of course, the hotel-keeper had sent her. With the maid holding the umbrella over her, she walked along the gravel path until she was under their window. The table was there, washed bright green in the rain, but the cat was gone. She was suddenly disappointed. The maid looked up at her. \'93Ha perduto qualche cosa, Signera?\'94 \'93There was a cat,\'94 said the American girl. \'93A cat?\'94 \'93Si, il gatto.\'94 \'93A cat?\'94 the maid laughed. \'93A cat in the rain?\'94 \'93Yes,\'94 she said, \'93under the table.\'94 Then, \'93Oh, I wanted it so much. I wanted a kitty.\'94 When she talked English the maid\'92s face tightened. \'93Come, Signora,\'94 she said. \'93We must get back inside. You will be wet.\'94 \'93I suppose so,\'94 said the American girl. They went back along the gravel path and passed in the door. The maid stayed outside to close the umbrella. As the American girl passed the office, the padrone bowed from his desk. Something felt very small and tight inside the girl. The padrone made her feel very small and at the same time really important. She had a momentary feeling of being of supreme importance. She went on up the stairs. She opened the door of the room. George was on the bed, reading. \'93Did you get the cat?\'94 he asked, putting the book down. \'93It was gone.\'94 \'93Wonder where it went to,\'94 he said, resting his eyes from reading. She sat down on the bed. \'93I wanted it so much,\'94 she said. \'93I don\'92t know why I wanted it so much. I wanted that poor kitty. It isn\'92t any fun to be a poor kitty out in the rain.\'94 George was reading again. She went over and sat in front of the mirror of the dressing table looking at herself with the hand glass. She studied her profile, first one side and then the other. Then she studied the back of her head and her neck. \'93Don\'92t you think it would be a good idea if I let my hair grow out?\'94 she asked, looking at her profile again. George looked up and saw the back of her neck, clipped close like a boy\'92s. \'93I like it the way it is.\'94 \'93I get so tired of it,\'94 she said. \'93I get so tired of looking like a boy.\'94 George shifted his position in the bed. He hadn\'92t looked away from her since she started to speak. \'93You look pretty darn nice,\'94 he said. She laid the mirror down on the dresser and went over to the window and looked out. It was getting dark. \'93I want to pull my hair back tight and smooth and make a big knot at the back that I can feel,\'94 she said. \'93I want to have a kitty to sit on my lap and purr when I stroke her.\'94 \'93Yeah?\'94 George said from the bed. \'93And I want to eat at a table with my own silver and I want candles. And I want it to be spring and I want to brush my hair out in front of a mirror and I want a kitty and I want some new clothes.\'94 \'93Oh, shut up and get something to read,\'94 George said. He was reading again. His wife was looking out of the window. It was quite dark now and still raining in the palm trees. \'93Anyway, I want a cat,\'94 she said, \'93I want a cat. I want a cat now. If I can\'92t have long hair or any fun, I can have a cat.\'94 George was not listening. He was reading his book. His wife looked out of the window where the light had come on in the square. Someone knocked at the door. \'93Avanti, \'94 George said. He looked up from his book. In the doorway stood the maid. She held a big tortoise-shell cat pressed tight against her and swung down against her body. \'93Excuse me,\'94 she said, \'93the padrone asked me to bring this for the Signora.\'94 CHAPTER XI The crowd shouted all the time and threw pieces of bread down into the ring, then cushions and leather wine bottles, keeping up whistling and yelling. Finally the bull was too tired from so much bad sticking and folded his knees and lay down and one of the cuadrilla leaned out over his neck and killed him with the puntillo. The crowd came over the barrera and around the torero and two men grabbed him and held him and some one cut of his pigtail and was waving it and a kid grabbed it and ran away with it. Afterwards I saw him at the caf\'e9. He was very short with a brown face and quite drunk and he said after all it has happened before like that. I am not really a good bull fighter. Out of Season ON THE FOUR LIRE PEDUZZI HAD EARNED by spading the hotel garden he got quite drunk. He saw the young gentleman coming down the path and spoke to him mysteriously. The young gentleman said he had not eaten but would be ready to go as soon as lunch was finished. Forty minutes or an hour. At the cantina near the bridge they trusted him for three more grappas because he was so confident and mysterious about his job for the afternoon. It was a windy day with the sun coming out from behind clouds and then going under in sprinkles of rain. A wonderful day for trout fishing. The young gentleman came out of the hotel and asked him about the rods. Should his wife come behind with the rods? \'93Yes,\'94 said Peduzzi, \'93let her follow us.\'94 The young gentleman went back into the hotel and spoke to his wife. He and Peduzzi started down the road. The young gentleman had a musette over his shoulder. Peduzzi saw the wife, who looked as young as the young gentleman, and was wearing mountain boots and a blue beret, start out to follow them down the road, carrying the fishing rods, unjointed, one in each hand. Peduzzi didn\'92t like her to be way back there. \'93Signorina.\'94 he called, winking at the young gentleman, \'93come up here and walk with us. Signora, come up here. Let us all walk together.\'94 Peduzzi wanted them all three to walk down the street of Cortina together. The wife stayed behind, following rather sullenly. \'93Signorina,\'94 Peduzzi called tenderly, \'93come up here with us.\'94 The young gentleman looked back and shouted something. The wife stopped lagging behind and walked up. Everyone they met walking through the main street of the town Peduzzi greeted elaborately. Buon d\'ec, Arturo! Tipping his hat. The bank clerk stared at him from the door of the Fascist caf\'e9. Groups of three and four people standing in front of the shops stared at the three. The workmen in their stonepowdered jackets working on the foundations of the new hotel looked up as they passed. Nobody spoke or gave any sign to them except the town beggar, lean and old, with a spittle-thickened beard, who lifted his hat as they passed. Peduzzi stopped in front of a store with the window full of bottles and brought his empty grappa bottle from an inside pocket of his old military coat. \'93A little to drink, some marsala for the Signora, something, something to drink.\'94 He gestured with the bottle. It was a wonderful day. \'93Marsala, you like marsala, Signorina? A little marsala?\'94 The wife stood sullenly. \'93You\'92ll have to play up to this,\'94 she said. \'93I can\'92t understand a word he says. He\'92s drunk, isn\'92t he?\'94 The young gentleman appeared not to hear Peduzzi. He was thinking, what in hell makes him say marsala? That\'92s what Max Beerbohm drinks. \'93Geld,\'94 Peduzzi said finally, taking hold of the young gentleman\'92s sleeve. \'93Lire.\'94 He smiled, reluctant to press the subject but needing to bring the young gentleman into action. The young gentleman took out his pocketook and gave him a ten-lira note. Peduzzi went up the steps to the door of the Specialty of Domestic and Foreign Wines shop. It was locked. \'93It is closed until two,\'94 someone passing in the street said scornfully. Peduzzi came down the steps. He felt hurt. \'93Never mind,\'94 he said, \'93we can get it at the Concordia.\'94 They walked down the road to the Concordia three abreast. On the porch of the Concordia, where the rusty bobsleds were stacked, the young gentleman said, \'93Was wollen Sie?\'94 Peduzzi handed him the ten-lira note folded over and over. \'93Nothing,\'94 he said, \'93anything.\'94 He was embarrassed. \'93Marsala, maybe. I don\'92t know. Marsala?\'94 The door of the Concordia shut on the young gentleman and the wife. \'93Three marsalas,\'94 said the young gentleman to the girl behind the pastry counter. \'93Two, you mean?\'94 she asked. \'93No,\'94 he said, \'93one for a vecchio.\'94 \'93Oh,\'94 she said, \'93a vecchio,\'94 and laughed, getting down the bottle. She poured out the three muddy looking drinks into three glasses. The wife was sitting at a table under the line of newspapers on sticks. The young gentleman put one of the marsalas in front of her. \'93You might as well drink it,\'94 he said, \'93maybe it\'92ll make you feel better.\'94 She sat and looked at the glass. The young gentleman went outside the door with a glass for Peduzzi but could not see him. \'93I don\'92t know where he is,\'94 he said, coming back into the pastry room carrying the glass. \'93He wanted a quart of it,\'94 said the wife. \'93How much is a quarter litre?\'94 the young gentleman asked the girl. \'93Of the bianco? One lira.\'94 \'93No, of the marsala. Put these two in, too,\'94 he said, giving her his own glass and the one poured for Peduzzi. She filled the quarter litre wine measure with a funnel. \'93A bottle to carry it,\'94 said the young gentleman. She went to hunt for a bottle. It all amused her. \'93I\'92m sorry you feel so rotten, Tiny,\'94 he said. \'93I\'92m sorry I talked the way I did at lunch. We were both getting at the same thing from different angles.\'94 \'93It doesn\'92t make any difference,\'94 she said. \'93None of it makes any difference.\'94 \'93Are you too cold?\'94 he asked. \'93I wish you\'92d worn another sweater.\'94 \'93I\'92ve got on three sweaters.\'94 The girl came in with a very slim brown bottle and poured the marsala into it. The young gentleman paid five lire more. They went out the door. The girl was amused. Peduzzi was walking up and down at the other end out of the wind and holding the rods. \'93Come on\'94 he said, \'93I will carry the rods. What difference does it make if anybody sees them? No one will trouble us. No one will make any trouble for me in Cortina. I know them at the municipio. I have been a soldier. Everybody in this town likes me. I sell frogs. What if it is forbidden to fish? Not a thing. Nothing. No trouble. Big trout, I tell you. Lots of them.\'94 They were walking down the hill toward the river. The town was in back of them. The sun had gone under and it was sprinkling rain. \'93There,\'94 said Peduzzi, pointing to a girl in the doorway of a house they passed. \'93My daughter.\'94 \'93His doctor,\'94 the wife said, \'93has he got to show us his doctor?\'94 \'93He said his daughter,\'94 said the young gentleman. The girl went into the house as Peduzzi pointed. They walked down the hill across the fields and then turned to follow the river bank. Peduzzi talked rapidly with much winking and knowingness. As they walked three abreast the wife caught his breath across the wind. Once he nudged her in the ribs. Part of the time he talked in d\'92Ampezzo dialect and sometimes in Tyroler German dialect. He could not make out which the young gentleman and his wife understood the best so he was being bilingual. But as the young gentleman said, \'93Ja, Ja,\'94 Peduzzi decided to talk altogether in Tyroler. The young gentleman and the wife understood nothing. \'93Everybody in the town saw us going through with these rods. We\'92re probably being followed by the game police now. I wish we weren\'92t in on this damn thing. This damned old fool is so drunk, too.\'94 \'93Of course you haven\'92t got the guts to just go back,\'94 said the wife. \'93Of course you have to go on.\'94 \'93Why don\'92t you go back? Go on back, Tiny.\'94 \'93I\'92m going to stay with you. If you go to jail we might as well both go.\'94 They turned sharp down the bank and Peduzzi stood, his coat blowing in the wind, gesturing at the river. It was brown and muddy. Off on the right there was a dump heap. \'93Say it to me in Italian,\'94 said the young gentleman. \'93Un\'92 mezz\'92ora. Piu d\'92un\'92 mezz\'92ora.\'94 \'93He says it\'92s at least a half hour more. Go on back. Tiny. You\'92re cold in this wind anyway. It\'92s a rotten day and we aren\'92t going to have any fun, anyway.\'94 \'93All right,\'94 she said, and climbed up the grassy bank. Peduzzi was down at the river and did not notice her till she was almost out of sight over the crest. \'93Frau!\'94 he shouted. \'93Frau! Fr\'e4ulein! You\'92re not going.\'94 She went on over the crest of the hill. \'93She\'92s gone!\'94 said Peduzzi. It shocked him. He took off the rubber bands that held the rod segments together and commenced to joint up one of the rods. \'93But you said it was half an hour further.\'94 \'93Oh, yes. It is good half an hour down. It is good here, too.\'94 \'93Really?\'94 \'93Of course. It is good here and good there, too.\'94 The young gentleman sat down on the bank and jointed up a rod, put on the reel and threaded the line through the guides. He felt uncomfortable and afraid that any minute a gamekeeper or a posse of citizens would come over the bank from the town. He could see the houses of the town and the campanile over the edge of the hill. He opened his leader box. Peduzzi leaned over and dug his flat, hard thumb and forefinger in and tangled the moistened leaders. \'93Have you some lead?\'94 \'93No.\'94 \'93You must have some lead.\'94 Peduzzi was excited. \'93You must have piombo. Piombo. A little piombo. Just here. Just above the hook or your bait will float on the water. You must have it. Just a little piombo.\'94 \'93Have you got some?\'94 \'93No.\'94 He looked through his pockets desperately. Sifting through the cloth dirt in the linings of his inside military pockets. \'93I haven\'92t any. We must have piombo.\'94 \'93We can\'92t fish then,\'94 said the young gentleman, and unjointed the rod, reeling the line back through the guides. \'93We\'92ll get some piombo and fish tomorrow.\'94 \'93But listen, caro, you must have piombo. The line will lie flat on the water.\'94 Peduzzi\'92s day was going to pieces before his eyes. \'93You must have piombo. A little is enough. Your stuff is all clean and new but you have no lead. I would have brought some. You said you had everything.\'94 The young gentleman looked at the stream discolored by the melting snow. \'93I know,\'94 he said, \'93we\'92ll get some piombo and fish tomorrow.\'94 \'93At what hour in the morning? Tell me that.\'94 \'93At seven.\'94 The sun came out. It was warm and pleasant. The young gentleman felt relieved. He was no longer breaking the law. Sitting on the bank he took the bottle of marsala out of his pocket and passed it to Peduzzi. Peduzzi passed it back. The young gentleman took a drink of it and passed it to Peduzzi again. Peduzzi passed it back again. \'93Drink,\'94 he said, \'93drink. It\'92s your marsala.\'94 After another short drink the young gentleman handed the bottle over. Peduzzi had been watching it closely. He took the bottle very hurriedly and tipped it up. The gray hairs in the folds of his neck oscillated as he drank, his eyes fixed on the end of the narrow brown bottle. He drank it all. The sun shone while he drank. It was wonderful. This was a great day, after all. A wonderful day. \'93Senta, caro! In the morning at seven.\'94 He had called the young gentleman caro several times and nothing had happened. It was good marsala. His eyes glistened. Days like this stretched out ahead. It would begin at seven in the morning. They started to walk up the hill toward the town. The young gentleman went on ahead. He was quite a way up the hill. Peduzzi called to him. \'93Listen, caro, can you let me take five lire for a favor?\'94 \'93For today?\'94 asked the young gentleman frowning. \'93No, not today. Give it to me today for tomorrow. I will provide everything for tomorrow. Pane, salami, formaggio, good stuff for all of us. You and I and the Signora. Bait for fishing, minnows, not worms only. Perhaps I can get some marsala. All for five lire. Five lire for a favor.\'94 The young gentleman looked through his pocketbook and took out a two-lira note and two ones. \'93Thank you, caro. Thank you,\'94 said Peduzzi, in the tone of one member of the Carleton Club accepting the Morning Post from another. This was living. He was through with the hotel garden, breaking up frozen manure with a dung fork. Life was opening out. \'93Until seven o\'92clock then, caro,\'94 he said, slapping the young gentleman on the back. \'93Promptly at seven.\'94 \'93I may not be going,\'94 said the young gentleman putting his purse back in his pocket. \'93What,\'94 said Peduzzi, \'93I will have minnows, Signor. Salami, everything. You and I and the Signora. The three of us.\'94 \'93I may not be going,\'94 said the young gentleman, \'93very probably not. I will leave word with the padrone at the hotel office.\'94 CHAPTER XII If it happened right down close in front of you, you could see Villalta snarl at the bull and curse him, and when the bull charged he swung back firmly like an oak when the wind hits it, his legs tight together, the muleta trailing and the sword following the curve behind. Then he cursed the bull, flopped the muleta at him, and swung back from the charge his feet firm, the muleta curving and at each swing the crowd roaring. When he started to kill it was all in the same rush. The bull looking at him straight in front, hating. He drew out the sword from the folds of the muleta and sighted with the same movement and called to the bull, Toro! Toro! and the bull charged and Villalta charged and just for a moment they became one. Villalta became one with the bull and then it was over. Villalta standing straight and the red hilt of the sword sticking out dully between the bull\'92s shoulders. Villalta, his hand up at the crowd and the bull roaring blood, looking straight at Villalta and his legs caving. Cross-Country Snow THE FUNICULAR CAR BUCKED ONCE MORE and then stopped. It could not go farther, the snow drifted solidly across the track. The gale scouring the exposed surface of the mountain had swept the snow surface into a wind-board crust. Nick, waxing his skis in the baggage car, pushed his boots into the toe irons and shut the clamp tight. He jumped from the car sideways onto the hard wind-board, made a jump turn and crouching and trailing his sticks slipped in a rush down the slope. On the white below George dipped and rose and dipped out of sight. The rush and the sudden swoop as he dropped down a steep undulation in the mountain side plucked Nick\'92s mind out and left him only the wonderful flying, dropping sensation in his body. He rose to a slight up-run and then the snow seemed to drop out from under him as he went down, down, faster and faster in a rush down the last, long steep slope. Crouching so he was almost sitting back on his skis, trying to keep the center of gravity low, the snow driving like a sand-storm, he knew the pace was too much. But he held it. He would not let go and spill. Then a patch of soft snow, left in a hollow by the wind, spilled him and he went over and over in a clashing of skis, feeling like a shot rabbit, then stuck, his legs crossed, his skis sticking straight up and his nose and ears jammed full of snow. George stood a little farther down the slope, knocking the snow from his wind jacket with big slaps. \'93You took a beauty, Mike,\'94 he called to Nick. \'93That\'92s lousy soft snow. It bagged me the same way.\'94 \'93What\'92s it like over the khud?\'94 Nick kicked his skis around as he lay on his back and stood up. \'93You\'92ve got to keep to your left. It\'92s a good fast drop with a Christy at the bottom on account of a fence.\'94 \'93Wait a sec and we\'92ll take it together.\'94 \'93No, you come on and go first. I like to see you take the khuds.\'94 Nick Adams came up past George, big back and blond head still faintly snowy, then his skis started slipping at the edge and he swooped down, hissing in the crystalline powder snow and seeming to float up and drop down as he went up and down the billowing khuds. He held to his left and at the end, as he rushed toward the fence, keeping his knees locked tight together and turning his body like tightening a screw brought his skis sharply around to the right in a smother of snow and slowed into a loss of speed parallel to the hillside and the wire fence. He looked up the hill. George was coming down in telemark position, kneeling; one leg forward and bent, the other trailing; his sticks hanging like some insect\'92s thin legs, kicking up puffs of snow as they touched the surface and finally the whole kneeling, trailing figure coming around in a beautiful right curve, crouching, the legs shot forward and back, the body leaning out against the swing, the sticks accenting the curve like points of light, all in a wild cloud of snow. \'93I was afraid to Christy,\'94 George said, \'93the snow was too deep. You made a beauty.\'94 \'93I can\'92t telemark with my leg,\'94 Nick said. Nick held down the top strand of the wire fence with his ski and George slid over. Nick followed him down to the road. They thrust bent-kneed along the road into a pine forest. The road became polished ice, stained orange and a tobacco yellow from the teams hauling logs. The skiers kept to the stretch of snow along the side. The road dipped sharply to a stream and then ran straight up-hill. Through the woods they could see a long, low-eaved, weather-beaten building. Through the trees it was a faded yellow. Closer the window frames were painted green. The paint was peeling. Nick knocked his clamps loose with one of his ski sticks and kicked off the skis. \'93We might as well carry them up here,\'94 he said. He climbed the steep road with the skis on his shoulder, kicking his heel nails into the icy footing. He heard George breathing and kicking in his heels just behind him. They stacked the skis against the side of the inn and slapped the snow off each other\'92s trousers, stamped their boots clean, and went in. Inside it was quite dark. A big porcelain stove shone in the corner of the room. There was a low ceiling. Smooth benches back of dark, wine-stained tables were along each side of the rooms. Two Swiss sat over their pipes and two decies of cloudy new wine next to the stove. The boys took off their jackets and sat against the wall on the other side of the stove. A voice in the next room stopped singing and a girl in a blue apron came in through the door to see what they wanted to drink. \'93A bottle of Sion,\'94 Nick said. \'93Is that all right, Gidge?\'94 \'93Sure,\'94 said George. \'93You know more about wine than I do. I like any of it.\'94 The girl went out. \'93There\'92s nothing really can touch skiing, is there?\'94 Nick said. \'93The way it feels when you first drop off on a long run.\'94 \'93Huh,\'94 said George. \'93It\'92s too swell to talk about.\'94 The girl brought the wine in and they had trouble with the cork. Nick finally opened it. The girl went out and they heard her singing in German in the next room. \'93Those specks of cork in it don\'92t matter,\'94 said Nick. \'93I wonder if she\'92s got any cake.\'94 \'93Let\'92s find out.\'94 The girl came in and Nick noticed that her apron covered swellingly her pregnancy. I wonder why I didn\'92t see that when she first came in, he thought. \'93What were you singing?\'94 he asked her. \'93Opera, German opera.\'94 She did not care to discuss the subject. \'93We have some apple strudel if you want it.\'94 \'93She isn\'92t so cordial, is she?\'94 said George. \'93Oh, well. She doesn\'92t know us and she thought we were going to kid her about her singing, maybe. She\'92s from up where they speak German probably and she\'92s touchy about being here and then she\'92s got that baby coming without being married and she\'92s touchy.\'94 \'93How do you know she isn\'92t married?\'94 \'93No ring. Hell, no girls get married around here till they\'92re knocked up.\'94 The door came open and a gang of woodcutters from up the road came in, stamping their boots and steaming in the room. The waitress brought in three litres of new wine for the gang and they sat at the two tables, smoking and quiet, with their hats off, leaning back against the wall or forward on the table. Outside the horses on the wood sledges made an occasional sharp jangle of bells as they tossed their heads. George and Nick were happy. They were fond of each other. They knew they had the run back home ahead of them. \'93When have you got to go back to school?\'94 Nick asked. \'93Tonight,\'94 George answered. \'93I\'92ve got to get the ten-forty from Montreux.\'94 \'93I wish you could stick over and we could do the Dent du Lys tomorrow.\'94 \'93I got to get educated,\'94 George said. \'93Gee, Mike, don\'92t you wish we could just bum together? Take our skis and go on the train to where there was good running and then go on and put up at pubs and go right across the Oberland and up the Valais and all through the Engadine and just take repair kit and extra sweaters and pyjamas in our rucksacks and not give a damn about school or anything.\'94 \'93Yes, and go through the Schwarzwald that way. Gee, the swell places.\'94 \'93That\'92s where you went fishing last summer, isn\'92t it?\'94 \'93Yes.\'94 They ate the strudel and drank the rest of the wine. George leaned back against the wall and shut his eyes. \'93Wine always makes me feel this way,\'94 he said. \'93Feel bad?\'94 Nick asked. \'93No. I feel good, but funny.\'94 \'93I know,\'94 Nick said. \'93Sure,\'94 said George. \'93Should we have another bottle?\'94 Nick asked. \'93Not for me,\'94 George said. They sat there, Nick leaning his elbows on the table, George slumped back against the wall. \'93Is Helen going to have a baby?\'94 George said, coming down to the table from the wall. \'93Yes.\'94 \'93When?\'94 \'93Late next summer.\'94 \'93Are you glad?\'94 \'93Yes. Now.\'94 \'93Will you go back to the States?\'94 \'93I guess so.\'94 \'93Do you want to?\'94 \'93No.\'94 \'93Does Helen?\'94 \'93No.\'94 George sat silent. He looked at the empty bottle and the empty glasses. \'93It\'92s hell, isn\'92t it?\'94 he said. \'93No. Not exactly,\'94 Nick said. \'93Why not?\'94 \'93I don\'92t know,\'94 Nick said. \'93Will you ever go skiing together in the States?\'94 George said. \'93I don\'92t know,\'94 said Nick. \'93The mountains aren\'92t much,\'94 George said. \'93No,\'94 said Nick. \'93They\'92re too rocky. There\'92s too much timber and they\'92re too far away.\'94 \'93Yes,\'94 said George, \'93that\'92s the way it is in California.\'94 \'93Yes,\'94 Nick said, \'93that\'92s the way it is everywhere I\'92ve ever been.\'94 \'93Yes,\'94 said George, \'93that\'92s the way it is.\'94 The Swiss got up and paid and went out. \'93I wish we were Swiss,\'94 George said. \'93They\'92ve all got goiter,\'94 said Nick. \'93I don\'92t believe it,\'94 George said. \'93Neither do I,\'94 said Nick. They laughed. \'93Maybe we\'92ll never go skiing again, Nick,\'94 George said. \'93We\'92ve got to,\'94 said Nick. \'93It isn\'92t worth while if you can\'92t.\'94 \'93We\'92ll go, all right,\'94 George said. \'93We\'92ve got to,\'94 Nick agreed. \'93I wish we could make a promise about it,\'94 George said. Nick stood up. He buckled his wind jacket tight. He leaned over George and picked up the two ski poles from against the wall. He stuck one of the ski poles into the floor. \'93There isn\'92t any good in promising,\'94 he said. They opened the door and went out. It was very cold. The snow had crusted hard. The road ran up the hill into the pine trees. They took down their skis from where they leaned against the wall in the inn. Nick put on his gloves. George was already started up the road, his skis on his shoulder. Now they would have the run home together. CHAPTER XIII I heard the drums coming down the street and then the fifes and the pipes and then they came around the corner, all dancing. The street was full of them. Maera saw him and then I saw him. When they stopped the music for the crouch he hunched down in the street with them all and when they started it again he jumped up and went dancing down the street with them. He was drunk all right. You go down after him, said Maera, he hates me. So I went down and caught up with them and grabbed him while he was crouched down waiting for the music to break loose and said, Come on Luis. For Christ\'92s sake you\'92ve got bulls this afternoon. He didn\'92t listen to me, he was listening so hard for the music to start. I said, Don\'92t be a damn fool Luis. Come on back to the hotel. Then the music started up again and he jumped up and twisted away from me and started dancing. I grabbed his arm and he pulled loose and said, Oh leave me alone. You\'92re not my father. I went back to the hotel and Maera was on the balcony looking out to see if I\'92d be bringing him back. He went inside when he saw me and came downstairs disgusted. Well, I said, after all he\'92s just an ignorant Mexican savage. Yes, Maera said, and who will kill his bulls after he gets a cogida? We, I suppose, I said. Yes, we, said Maera. We kills the savages \'92 bulls, and the drunkards\'92 bulls, and the riau-riau dancers\'92 bulls. Yes. We kill them. We kill them all right. Yes. Yes. Yes. My Old Man I GUESS LOOKING AT IT, NOW, MY OLD man was cut out for a fat guy, one of those regular little roly fat guys you see around, but he sure never got that way, except a little toward the last, and then it wasn\'92t his fault, he was riding over the jumps only and he could afford to carry plenty of weight then. I remember the way he\'92d pull on a rubber shirt over a couple of jerseys and a big sweat shirt over that, and get me to run with him in the forenoon in the hot sun. He\'92d have, maybe, taken a trial trip with one of Razzo\'92s skins early in the morning after just getting in from Torino at four o\'92clock in the morning and beating it out to the stables in a cab and then with the dew all over everything and the sun just starting to get going, I\'92d help him pull off his boots and he\'92d get into a pair of sneakers and all these sweaters and we\'92d start out. \'93Come on, kid,\'94 he\'92d say, stepping up and down on his toes in front of the jock\'92s dressing room, \'93let\'92s get moving.\'94 Then we\'92d start off jogging around the infield once, maybe, with him ahead, running nice, and then turn out the gate and along one of those roads with all the trees along both sides of them that run out from San Siro. I\'92d go ahead of him when we hit the road and I could run pretty good and I\'92d look around and he\'92d be jogging easy just behind me and after a little while I\'92d look around again and he\'92d begun to sweat. Sweating heavy and he\'92d just be dogging it along with his eyes on my back, but when he\'92d catch me looking at him he\'92d grin and say, \'93Sweating plenty?\'94 When my old man grinned, nobody could help but grin too. We\'92d keep right on running out toward the mountains and then my old man would yell, \'93Hey, Joe!\'94 and I\'92d look back and he\'92d be sitting under a tree with a towel he\'92d had around his waist wrapped around his neck. I\'92d come back and sit down beside him and he\'92d pull a rope out of his pocket and start skipping rope out in the sun with the sweat pouring off his face and him skipping rope out in the white dust with the rope going cloppetty, cloppetty, clop, clop, clop, and the sun hotter, and him working harder up and down a patch of the road. Say, it was a treat to see my old man skip rope, too. He could whirr it fast or lop it slow and fancy. Say, you ought to have seen wops look at us sometimes, when they\'92d come by, going into town walking along with big white steers hauling the cart. They sure looked as though they thought the old man was nuts. He\'92d start the rope whirring till they\'92d stop dead still and watch him, then give the steers a cluck and a poke with the goad and get going again. When I\'92d sit watching him working out in the hot sun I sure felt fond of him. He sure was fun and he done his work so hard and he\'92d finish up with a regular whirring that\'92d drive the sweat out on his face like water and then sling the rope at the tree and come over and sit down with me and lean back against the tree with the towel and a sweater wrapped around his neck. \'93Sure is hell keeping it down, Joe,\'94 he\'92d say and lean back and shut his eyes and breathe long and deep, \'93it ain\'92t like when you\'92re a kid.\'94 Then he\'92d get up and before he started to cool we\'92d jog along back to the stables. That\'92s the way it was keeping down to weight. He was worried all the time. Most jocks can just about ride off all they want to. A jock loses about a kilo every time he rides, but my old man was sort of dried out and he couldn\'92t keep down his kilos without all that running. I remember once at San Siro, Regoli, a little wop, that was riding for Buzoni, came out across the paddock going to the bar for something cool; and flicking his boots with his whip, after he\'92d just weighed in and my old man had just weighed in too, and came out with the saddle under his arm looking red-faced and tired and too big for his silks and he stood there looking at young Regoli standing up to the outdoors bar, cool and kid-looking, and I said, \'93What\'92s the matter, Dad?\'94 cause I thought maybe Regoli had bumped him or something and he just looked at Regoli and said, \'93Oh, to hell with it,\'94 and went on to the dressing room. Well, it would have been all right, maybe, if we\'92d stayed in Milan and ridden at Milan and Torino/cause if there ever were any easy courses, it\'92s those two. \'93Pianola, Joe,\'94 my old man said when he dismounted in the winning stall after what the wops thought was a hell of a steeplechase. I asked him once. \'93This course rides itself. It\'92s the pace you\'92re going at, that makes riding the jumps dangerous, Joe. We ain\'92t going any pace here, and they ain\'92t really bad jumps either. But it\'92s the pace always\'97not the jumps\'97that makes the trouble.\'94 San Siro was the swellest course I\'92d ever seen but the old man said it was a dog\'92s life. Going back and forth between Mirafiore and San Siro and riding just about every day in the week with a train ride every other night. I was nuts about the horses, too. There\'92s something about it, when they come out and go up the track to the post. Sort of dancy and tight looking with the jock keeping a tight hold on them and maybe easing off a little and letting them run a little going up. Then once they were at the barrier it got me worse than anything. Especially at San Siro with that big green infield and the mountains way off and the fat wop starter with his big whip and the jocks fiddling them around and then the barrier snapping up and that bell going off and them all getting off in a bunch and then commencing to string out. You know the way a bunch of skins gets off. If you\'92re up in the stand with a pair of glasses all you see is them plunging off and then that bell goes off and it seems like it rings for a thousand years and then they come sweeping round the turn. There wasn\'92t ever anything like it for me. But my old man said one day, in the dressing room, when he was getting into his street clothes, \'93None of these things are horses, Joe. They\'92d kill that bunch of skates for their hides and hoofs up at Paris.\'94 That was the day he\'92d won the Premio Commercio with Lantorna shooting her out of the field the last hundred meters like pulling a cork out of a bottle. It was right after the Premio Commercio that we pulled out and left Italy. My old man and Holbrook and a fat wop in a straw hat that kept wiping his face with a handkerchief were having an argument at a table in the Galleria. They were all talking French and the two of them was after my old man about something. Finally he didn\'92t say anything any more but just sat there and looked at Holbrook, and the two of them kept after him, first one talking and then the other, and the fat wop always butting in on Holbrook. \'93You go out and buy me a Sportsman, will you, Joe?\'94 my old man said, and handed me a couple of soldi without looking away from Holbrook. So I went out of the Galleria and walked over to in front of the Scala and bought a paper, and came back and stood a little way away because I didn\'92t want to butt in and my old man was sitting back in his chair looking down at his coffee and fooling with a spoon and Holbrook and the big wop were standing and the big wop was wiping his face and shaking his head. And I came up and my old man acted just as though the two of them weren\'92t standing there and said, \'93Want an ice, Joe?\'94 Holbrook looked down at my old man and said slow and careful, \'93You son of a bitch,\'94 and he and the fat wop went out through the tables. My old man sat there and son of smiled at me, but his face was white and he looked sick as hell and I was scared and felt sick inside because I knew something had happened and I didn\'92t see how anybody could call my old man a son of a bitch, and get away with it. My old man opened up the Sportsman and studied the handicaps for a while and then he said, \'93You got to take a lot of things in this world, Joe.\'94 And three days later we left Milan for good on the Turin train for Paris, after an auction sale out in front of Turner\'92s stables of everything we couldn\'92t get into a trunk and a suit case. We got into Paris early in the morning in a long, dirty station the old man told me was the Gare de Lyon. Paris was an awful big town after Milan. Seems like in Milan everybody is going somewhere and all the trams run somewhere and there ain\'92t any sort of a mix-up, but Paris is all balled up and they never do straighten it out. I got to like it, though, part of it, anyway, and say, it\'92s got the best race courses in the world. Seems as though that were the thing that keeps it all going and about the only thing you can figure on is that every day the buses will be going out to whatever track they\'92re running at, going right out through everything to the track. I never really got to know Paris well, because I just came in about once or twice a week with the old man from Maisons and he always sat at the Caf\'e9 de la Paix on the Opera side with the rest of the gang from Maisons and I guess that\'92s one of the busiest parts of the town. But, say, it is funny that a big town like Paris wouldn\'92t have a Galleria, isn\'92t it? Well, we went out to live at Maisons-Lafitte, where just about everybody lives except the gang at Chantilly, with a Mrs. Meyers that runs a boarding house. Maisons is about the swellest place to live I\'92ve ever seen in all my life. The town ain\'92t so much, but there\'92s a lake and a swell forest that we used to go off bumming in all day, a couple of us kids, and my old man made me a sling shot and we got a lot of things with it but the best one was a magpie. Young Dick Atkinson shot a rabbit with it one day and we put it under a tree and were all sitting around and Dick had some cigarettes and all of a sudden the rabbit jumped up and beat it into the brush and we chased it but we couldn\'92t find it. Gee, we had fun at Maisons. Mrs. Meyers used to give me lunch in the morning and I\'92d be gone all day. I learned to talk French quick. It\'92s an easy language. As soon as we got to Maisons, my old man wrote to Milan for his license and he was pretty worried till it came. He used to sit around the Caf\'e9 de Paris in Maisons with the gang, there were lots of guys he\'92d known when he rode up at Paris, before the war, lived at Maisons, and there\'92s a lot of time to sit around because the work around a racing stable, for the jocks, that is, is all cleaned up by nine o\'92clock in the morning. They take the first bunch of skins out to gallop them at 5:30 in the morning and they work the second lot at 8 o\'92clock. That means getting up early all right and going to bed early, too. If a jock\'92s riding for somebody too, he can\'92t go boozing around because the trainer always has an eye on him if he\'92s a kid and if he ain\'92t a kid he\'92s always got an eye on himself. So mostly if a jock ain\'92t working he sits around the Caf\'e9 de Paris with the gang and they can all sit around about two or three hours in front of some drink like a vermouth and seltz and they talk and tell stories and shoot pool and it\'92s sort of like a club or the Galleria in Milan. Only it ain\'92t really like the Galleria because there everybody is going by all the time and there\'92s everybody around at the tables. Well, my old man got his license all right. They sent it through to him without a word and he rode a couple of times. Amiens, up country and that sort of thing, but he didn\'92t seem to get any engagement. Everybody liked him and whenever I\'92d come into the Caf\'e9 in the forenoon I\'92d find somebody drinking with him because my old man wasn\'92t tight like most of these jockeys that have got the first dollar they made riding at the World\'92s Fair in St. Louis in nineteen ought four. That\'92s what my old man would say when he\'92d kid George Burns. But it seemed like everybody steered clear of giving my old man any mounts. We went out to wherever they were runnning every day with the car from Maisons and that was the most fun of all. I was glad when the horses came back from Deauville and the summer. Even though it meant no more bumming in the woods,\'92cause then we\'92d ride to Enghien or Tremblay or St. Cloud and watch them from the trainers\'92 and jockeys\'92 stand. I sure learned about racing from going out with that gang and the fun of it was going every day. I remember once out at St. Cloud. It was a big two hundred thousand franc race with seven entries and Kzar a big favorite. I went around to the paddock to see the horses with my old man and you never saw such horses. This Kzar is a great big yellow horse that looks like just nothing but run. I never saw such a horse. He was being led around the paddocks with his head down and when he went by me I felt all hollow inside he was so beautiful. There never was such a wonderful, lean, running built horse. And he went around the paddock putting his feet just so and quiet and careful and moving easy like he knew just what he had to do and not jerking and standing up on his legs and getting wild eyed like you see these selling platers with a shot of dope in them. The crowd was so thick I couldn\'92t see him again except just his legs going by and some yellow and my old man started out through the crowd and I followed him over to the jock\'92s dressing room back in the trees and there was a big crowd around there, too, but the man at the door in a derby nodded to my old man and we got in and everybody was sitting around and getting dressed and pulling shirts over their heads and pulling boots on and it all smelled hot and sweaty and linimenty and outside was the crowd looking in. The old man went over and sat down beside George Gardner that was getting into his pants and said, \'93What\'92s the dope, George?\'94 just in an ordinary tone of voice \'92cause there ain\'92t any use him feeling around because George either can tell him or he can\'92t tell him. \'93He won\'92t win,\'94 George says very low, leaning over and buttoning the bottoms of his breeches. \'93Who will?\'94 my old man says, leaning over close so nobody can hear. \'93Kircubbin,\'94 George says, \'93and if he does, save me a couple of tickets.\'94 My old man says something in a regular voice to George and George says, \'93Don\'92t ever bet on anything I tell you,\'94 kidding like, and we beat it out and through all the crowd that was looking in, over to the 100 franc mutuel machine. But I knew something big was up because George is Kzar\'92s jockey. On the way he gets one of the yellow odds-sheets with the starting prices on and Kzar is only paying 5 for 10, Cefisidote is next at 3 to 1 and fifth down the list this Kircubbin at 8 to 1. My old man bets five thousand on Kircubbin to win and puts on a thousand to place and we went around back of the grandstand to go up the stairs and get a place to watch the race. We were jammed in tight and first a man in a long coat with a gray tall hat and a whip folded up in his hand came out and then one after another the horses, with the jocks up and a stable boy holding the bridle on each side and walking along, followed the old guy. That big yellow horse Kzar came first. He didn\'92t look so big when you first looked at him until you saw the length of his legs and the whole way he\'92s built and the way he moves. Gosh, I never saw such a horse. George Gardner was riding him and they moved along slow, back of the old guy in the gray tall hat that walked along like he was a ring master in a circus. Back of Kzar, moving along smooth and yellow in the sun, was a good looking black with a nice head with Tommy Archibald riding him; and after the black was a string of five more horses all moving along slow in a procession past the grandstand and the pesage. My old man said the black was Kircubbin and I took a good look at him and he was a nice-looking horse, all right, but nothing like Kzar. Everybody cheered Kzar when he went by and he sure was one swell-looking horse. The procession of them went around on the other side past the pelouse and then back up to the near end of the course and the circus master had the stable boys turn them loose one after another so they could gallop by the stands on their way up to the post and let everybody have a good look at them. They weren\'92t at the post hardly any time at all when the gong started and you could see them way off across the infield all in a bunch starting on the first swing like a lot of little toy horses. I was watching them through the glasses and Kzar was running well back, with one of the bays making the pace. They swept down and around and came pounding past and Kzar was way back when they passed us and this Kircubbin horse in front and going smooth. Gee, it\'92s awful when they go by you and then you have to watch them go farther away and get smaller and smaller and then all bunched up on the turns and then come around towards into the stretch and you feel like swearing and god-damming worse and worse. Finally they made the last turn and came into the straightaway with this Kircubbin horse way out in front. Everybody was looking funny and saying \'93Kzar\'94 in sort of a sick way and them pounding nearer down the stretch, and then something came out of the pack right into my glasses like a horseheaded yellow streak and everybody began to yell \'93Kzar\'94 as though they were crazy. Kzar came on faster than I\'92d ever seen anything in my life and pulled up on Kircubbin that was going fast as any black horse could go with the jock flogging hell out of him with the gad and they were right dead neck and neck for a second but Kzar seemed going about twice as fast with those great jumps and that head out\'97but it was while they were neck and neck that they passed the winning post and when the numbers went up in the slots the first one was 2 and that meant that Kircubbin had won. I felt all trembly and funny inside, and then we were all jammed in with the people going downstairs to stand in front of the board where they\'92d post what Kircubbin paid. Honest, watching the race I\'92d forgot how much my old man had bet on Kircubbin. I\'92d wanted Kzar to win so damned bad. But now it was all over it was swell to know we had the winner. \'93Wasn\'92t it a swell race. Dad?\'94 I said to him. He looked at me sort of funny with his derby on the back of his head. \'93George Gardner\'92s a swell jockey, all right,\'94 he said. \'93It sure took a great jock to keep that Kzar horse from winning.\'94 Of course I knew it was funny all the time. But my old man saying that right out like that sure took the kick all out of it for me and I didn\'92t get the real kick back again ever, even when they posted the numbers upon the board and the bell rang to pay off and we saw that Kircubbin paid 67.50 for 10. All round people were saying, \'93Poor Kzar! Poor Kzar!\'94 And I thought, I wish I were a jockey and could have rode him instead of that son of a bitch. And that was funny, thinking of George Gardner as a son of a bitch because I\'92d always liked him and besides he\'92d given us the winner, but I guess that\'92s what he is, all right. My old man had a big lot of money after that race and he took to coming into Paris oftener. If they raced at Tremblay he\'92d have them drop him in town on their way back to Maisons and he and I\'92d sit out in front of the Caf\'e9 de la Paix and watch the people go by. It\'92s funny sitting there. There\'92s streams of people going by and all sorts of guys come up and want to sell you things, and I loved to sit there with my old man. That was when we\'92d have the most fun. Guys would come by selling funny rabbits that jumped if you squeezed a bulb and they\'92d come up to us and my old man would kid with them. He could talk French just like English and all those kind of guys knew him \'92cause you can always tell a jockey\'97and then we always sat at the same table and they got used to seeing us there. There were guys selling matrimonial papers and girls selling rubber eggs that when you squeezed them a rooster came out of them and one old wormy-looking guy that went by with post-cards of Paris, showing them to everybody, and, of course, nobody ever bought any, and then he would come back and show the under side of the pack and they would all be smutty postcards and lots of people would dig down and buy them. Gee, I remember the funny people that used to go by. Girls around supper time looking for somebody to take them out to eat and they\'92d speak to my old man and he\'92d make some joke at them in French and they\'92d pat me on the head and go on. Once there was an American woman sitting with her kid daughter at the next table to us and they were both eating ices and I kept looking at the girl and she was awfully good looking and I smiled at her and she smiled at me but that was all that ever came of it because I looked for her mother and her every day and I made up ways that I was going to speak to her and I wondered if I got to know her if her mother would let me take her out to Auteuil or Tremblay but I never saw either of them again. Anyway, I guess it wouldn\'92t have been any good, anyway, because looking back on it I remember the way I thought out would be best to speak to her was to say, \'93Pardon me, but perhaps I can give you a winner at Enghien today?\'94 and, after all, maybe she would have thought I was a tout instead of really trying to give her a winner. We\'92d sit at the Caf\'e9 de la Paix, my old man and me, and we had a big drag with the waiter because my old man drank whisky and it cost five francs, and that meant a good tip when the saucers were counted up. My old man was drinking more than I\'92d ever seen him, but he wasn\'92t riding at all now and besides he said that whisky kept his weight down. But I noticed he was putting it on, all right, just the same. He\'92d busted away from his old gang out at Maisons and seemed to like just sitting around on the boulevard with me. But he was dropping money every day at the track. He\'92d feel sort of doleful after the last race, if he\'92d lost on the day, until we\'92d get to our table and he\'92d have his first whisky and then he\'92d be fine. He\'92d be reading the Paris-Sport and he\'92d look over at me and say, \'93Where\'92s your girl, Joe?\'94 to kid me on account I had told him about the girl that day at the next table. And I\'92d get red, but I liked being kidded about her. It gave me a good feeling. \'93Keep your eye peeled for her, Joe,\'94 he\'92d say, \'93she\'92ll be back.\'94 He\'92d ask me questions about things and some of the things I\'92d say he\'92d laugh. And then he\'92d get started talking about things. About riding down in Egypt, or at St. Moritz on the ice before my mother died, and about during the war when they had regular races down in the south of France without any purses, or betting or crowd or anything just to keep the breed up. Regular races with the jocks riding hell out of the horses. Gee, I could listen to my old man talk by the hour, especially when he\'92d had a couple or so of drinks. He\'92d tell me about when he was a boy in Kentucky and going coon hunting, and the old days in the States before everything went on the bum there. And he\'92d say, \'93Joe, when we\'92ve got a decent stake, you\'92re going back there to the States and go to school.\'94 \'93What\'92ve I got to go back there to go to school for when everything\'92s on the bum there?\'94 I\'92d ask him. \'93That\'92s different,\'94 he\'92d say and get the waiter over and pay the pile of saucers and we\'92d get a taxi to the Gare St. Lazare and get on the train out to Maisons. One day at Auteuil, after a selling steeplechase, my old man bought in the winner for 30,000 francs. He had to bid a little to get him but the stable let the horse go finally and my old man had his permit and his colors in a week. Gee, I felt proud when my old man was an owner. He fixed it up for stable space with Charles Drake and cut out coming in to Paris, and started his running and sweating out again, and him and I were the whole stable gang. Our horse\'92s name was Gilford, he was Irish bred and a nice, sweet jumper. My old man figured that training him and riding him, himself, he was a good investment. I was proud of everything and I thought Gilford was as good a horse as Kzar. He was a good, solid jumper, a bay, with plenty of speed on the flat, if you asked him for it, and he was a nicelooking horse, too. Gee, I was fond of him. The first time he started with my old man up, he finished third in a 2500 meter hurdle race and when my old man got off him, all sweating and happy in the place stall, and went in to weigh, I felt as proud of him as though it was the first race he\'92d ever placed in. You see, when a guy ain\'92t been riding for a long time, you can\'92t make yourself really believe that he has ever rode. The whole thing was different now, \'92cause down in Milan, even big races never seemed to make any difference to my old man, if he won he wasn\'92t ever excited or anything, and now it was so I couldn\'92t hardly sleep the night before a race and I knew my old man was excited, too, even if he didn\'92t show it. Riding for yourself makes an awful difference. Second time Gilford and my old man started, was a rainy Sunday at Auteuil, in the Prix du Marat, a 4500 meter steeplechase. As soon as he\'92d gone out I beat it up in the stand with the new glasses my old man had bought for me to watch them. They started way over at the far end of the course and there was some trouble at the barrier. Something with goggle blinders on was making a great fuss and rearing around and busted the barrier once, but I could see my old man in our black jacket, with a white cross and a black cap, sitting up on Gilford, and patting him with his hand. Then they were off in a jump and out of sight behind the trees and the gong going for dear life and the parimutuel wickets rattling down. Gosh, I was so excited, I was afraid to look at them, but I fixed the glasses on the place where they would come out back of the trees and then out they came with the old black jacket going third and they all sailing over the jump like birds. Then they went out of sight again and then they came pounding out and down the hill and all going nice and sweet and easy and taking the fence smooth in a bunch, and moving away from us all solid. Looked as though you could walk across on their backs they were all so bunched and going so smooth. Then they bellied over the big double Bullfinch and something came down. I couldn\'92t see who it was, but in a minute the horse was up and galloping free and the field, all bunched still, sweeping around the long left turn into the straightaway. They jumped the stone wall and came jammed down the stretch toward the big waterjump right in front of the stands. I saw them coming and hollered at my old man as he went by, and he was leading by about a length and riding way out, and light as a monkey, and they were racing for the water-jump. They took off over the big hedge of the water-jump in a pack and then there was a crash, and two horses pulled sideways out off it, and kept on going, and three others were piled up. I couldn\'92t see my old man anywhere. One horse kneed himself up and the jock had hold of the bridle and mounted and went slamming on after the place money. The other horse was up and away by himself, jerking his head and galloping with the bridle rein hanging and the jock staggered over to one side of the track against the fence. Then Gilford rolled over to one side off my old man and got up and started to run on three legs with his front off hoof dangling and there was my old man laying there on the grass flat out with his face up and blood all over the side of his head. I ran down the stand and bumped into a jam of people and got to the rail and a cop grabbed me and held me and two big stretcher-bearers were going out after my old man and around on the other side of the course I saw three horses, strung way out, coming out of the trees and taking the jump. My old man was dead when they brought him in and while a doctor was listening to his heart with a thing plugged in his ears, I heard a shot up the track that meant they\'92d killed Gilford. I lay down beside my old man, when they carried the stretcher into the hospital room, and hung onto the stretcher and cried and cried, and he looked so white and gone and so awfully dead, and I couldn\'92t help feeling that if my old man was dead maybe they didn\'92t need to have shot Gilford. His hoof might have got well. I don\'92t know. I loved my old man so much. Then a couple of guys came in and one of them patted me on the back and then went over and looked at my old man and then pulled a sheet off the cot and spread it over him; and the other was telephoning in French for them to send the ambulance to take him out to Maisons. And I couldn\'92t stop crying, crying and choking, sort of, and George Gardner came in and sat down beside me on the floor and put his arm around me and says, \'93Come on, Joe, old boy. Get up and we\'92ll go out and wait for the ambulance.\'94 George and I went out to the gate and I was trying to stop bawling and George wiped off my face with his handkerchief and we were standing back a little ways while the crowd was going out of the gate and a couple of guys stopped near us while we were waiting for the crowd to get through the gate and one of them was counting a bunch of mutuel tickets and he said, \'93Well, Butler got his, all right.\'94 The other guy said, \'93I don\'92t give a good goddam if he did, the crook. He had it coming to him on the stuff he\'92s pulled.\'94 \'93I\'92ll say he had,\'94 said the other guy, and tore the bunch of tickets in two. And George Gardner looked at me to see if I\'92d heard and I had all right and he said, \'93Don\'92t you listen to what those bums said, Joe. Your old man was one swell guy.\'94 But I don\'92t know. Seems like when they get started they don\'92t leave a guy nothing. CHAPTER XIV Maera lay still his head on his arms, his face in the sand. He felt warm and sticky from the bleeding. Each time he felt the horn coming. Sometimes the bull only bumped him with his head. Once the horn went all the way through him and he felt it go into the sand. Some one had the bull by the tail. They were swearing at him and flopping the cape in his face. Then the bull was gone. Some men picked Maera up and started to run with him toward the barriers through the gate out the passageway around under the grandstand to the infirmary. They laid Maera down on a cot and one of the men went out for the doctor. The others stood around. The doctor came running from the corral where he had been sewing up picador horses. He had to stop and wash his hands. There was a great shouting going on in the grandstand overhead. Maera felt everything getting larger and larger and then smaller and smaller. Then it got larger and larger and larger and then smaller and smaller. Then everything commenced to run faster and faster as when they speed up a cinematograph film. Then he was dead. Big Two-Hearted River Part I THE TRAIN WENT ON UP THE TRACK OUT of sight, around one of the hills of burnt timber. Nick sat down on the bundle of canvas and bedding the baggage man had pitched out of the door of the baggage car. There was no town, nothing but the rails and the burnedover country. The thirteen saloons that had lined the one street of Seney had not left a trace. The foundations of the Mansion House hotel stuck up above the ground. The stone was chipped and split by the fire. It was all that was left of the town of Seney. Even the surface had been burned off the ground. Nick looked at the burned-over stretch of hillside, where he had expected to find the scattered houses of the town and then walked down the railroad track to the bridge over the river. The river was there. It swirled against the log spiles of the bridge. Nick looked down into the clear, brown water, colored from the pebbly bottom, and watched the trout keeping themselves steady in the current with wavering fins. As he watched them they changed their positions by quick angles, only to hold steady in the fast water again. Nick watched them a long time. He watched them holding themselves with their noses into the current, many trout in deep, fast moving water, slightly distorted as he watched far down through the glassy convex surface of the pool, its surface pushing and swelling smooth against the resistance of the log-driven piles of the bridge. At the bottom of the pool were the big trout. Nick did not see them at first. Then he saw them at the bottom of the pool, big trout looking to hold themselves on the gravel bottom in a varying mist of gravel and sand, raised in spurts by the current. Nick looked down into the pool from the bridge. It was a hot day. A kingfisher flew up the stream. It was a long time since Nick had looked into a stream and seen trout. They were very satisfactory. As the shadow of the kingfisher moved up the stream, a big trout shot upstream in a long angle, only his shadow marking the angle, then lost his shadow as he came through the surface of the water, caught the sun, and then, as he went back into the stream under the surface, his shadow seemed to float down the stream with the current, unresisting, to his post under the bridge where he tightened facing up into the current. Nick\'92s heart tightened as the trout moved. He felt all the old feeling. He turned and looked down the stream. It stretched away, pebbly-bottomed with shallows and big boulders and a deep pool as it curved away around the foot of a bluff. Nick walked back up the ties to where his pack lay in the cinders beside the railway track. He was happy. He adjusted the pack harness around the bundle, pulling straps tight, slung the pack on his back, got his arms through the shoulder straps and took some of the pull off his shoulders by leaning his forehead against the wide band of the tump-line. Still, it was too heavy. It was much too heavy. He had his leather rod-case in his hand and leaning forward to keep the weight of the pack high on his shoulders he walked along the road that paralleled the railway track, leaving the burned town behind in the heat, and then turned off around a hill with a high, fire-scarred hill on either side onto a road that went back into the country. He walked along the road feeling the ache from the pull of the heavy pack. The road climbed steadily. It was hard work walking up-hill. His muscles ached and the day was hot, but Nick felt happy. He felt he had left everything behind, the need for thinking, the need to write, other needs. It was all back of him. From the time he had gotten down off the train and the baggage man had thrown his pack out of the open car door things had been different. Seney was burned, the country was burned over and changed, but it did not matter. It could not all be burned. He knew that. He hiked along the road, sweating in the sun, climbing to cross the range of hills that separated the railway from the pine plains. The road ran on, dipping occasionally, but always climbing. Nick went on up. Finally the road after going parallel to the burnt hillside reached the top. Nick leaned back against a stump and slipped out of the pack harness. Ahead of him, as far as he could see, was the pine plain. The burned country stopped off at the left with the range of hills. On ahead islands of dark pine trees rose out of the plain. Far off to the left was the line of the river. Nick followed it with his eye and caught glints of the water in the sun. There was nothing but the pine plain ahead of him, until the far blue hills that marked the Lake Superior height of land. He could hardly see them, faint and far away in the heat-light over the plain. If he looked too steadily they were gone. But if he only half-looked they were there, the far-off hills of the height of land. Nick sat down against the charred stump and smoked a cigarette. His pack balanced on the top of the stump, harness holding ready, a hollow molded in it from his back. Nick sat smoking, looking out over the country. He did not need to get his map out. He knew where he was from the position of the river. As he smoked, his legs stretched out in front of him, he noticed a grasshopper walk along the ground and up onto his woolen sock. The grasshopper was black. As he had walked along the road, climbing, he had started many grasshoppers from the dust. They were all black. They were not the big grasshoppers with yellow and black or red and black wings whirring out from their black wing sheathing as they fly up. These were just ordinary hoppers, but all a sooty black in color. Nick had wondered about them as he walked, without really thinking about them. Now, as he watched the black hopper that was nibbling at the wool of his sock with its fourway lip, he realized that they had all turned black from living in the burned-over land. He realized that the fire must have come the year before, but the grasshoppers were all black now. He wondered how long they would stay that way. Carefully he reached his hand down and took hold of the hopper by the wings. He turned him up, all his legs walking in the air, and looked at his jointed belly. Yes, it was black too, iridescent where the back and head were dusty. \'93Go on, hopper,\'94 Nick said, speaking out loud for the first time. \'93Fly away somewhere.\'94 He tossed the grasshopper up into the air and watched him sail away to a charcoal stump across the road. Nick stood up. He leaned his back against the weight of his pack where it rested upright on the stump and got his arms through the shoulder straps. He stood with the pack on his back on the brow of the hill looking out across the country toward the distant river and then struck down the hillside away from the road. Underfoot the ground was good walking. Two hundred yards down the hillside the fire line stopped. Then it was sweet fern, growing ankle high, to walk through, and clumps of jack pines; a long undulating country with frequent rises and descents, sandy underfoot and the country alive again. Nick kept his direction by the sun. He knew where he wanted to strike the river and he kept on through the pine plain, mounting small rises to see other rises ahead of him and sometimes from the top of a rise a great solid island of pines off to his right or his left. He broke off some sprigs of the heathery sweet fern, and put them under his pack straps. The chafing crushed it and he smelled it as he walked. He was tired and very hot, walking across the uneven, shadeless pine plain. At any time he knew he could strike the river by turning off to his left. It could not be more than a mile away. But he kept on toward the north to hit the river as far upstream as he could go in one day\'92s walking. For some time as he walked Nick had been in sight of one of the big islands of pine standing out above the rolling high ground he was crossing. He dipped down and then as he came slowly up to the crest of the bridge he turned and made toward the pine trees. There was no underbrush in the island of pine trees. The trunks of the trees went straight up or slanted toward each other. The trunks were straight and brown without branches. The branches were high above. Some interlocked to make a solid shadow on the brown forest floor. Around the grove of trees was a bare space. It was brown and soft underfoot as Nick walked on it. This was the overlapping of the pine needle floor, extending out beyond the width of the high branches. The trees had grown tall and the branches moved high, leaving in the sun this bare space they had once covered with shadow. Sharp at the edge of this extension of the forest floor commenced the sweet fern. Nick slipped off his pack and lay down in the shade. He lay on his back and looked up into the pine trees. His neck and back and the small of his back rested as he stretched. The earth felt good against his back. He looked up at the sky, through the branches, and then shut his eyes. He opened them and looked up again. There was a wind high up in the branches. He shut his eyes again and went to sleep. Nick woke stiff and cramped. The sun was nearly down. His pack was heavy and the straps painful as he lifted it on. He leaned over with the pack on and picked up the leather rod-case and started out from the pine trees across the sweet fern swale, toward the river. He knew it could not be more than a mile. He came down a hillside covered with stumps into a meadow. At the edge of the meadow flowed the river. Nick was glad to get to the river. He walked upstream through the meadow. His trousers were soaked with the dew as he walked. After the hot day, the dew had come quickly and heavily. The river made no sound. It was too fast and smooth. At the edge of the meadow, before he mounted to a piece of high ground to make camp, Nick looked down the river at the trout rising. They were rising to insects come from the swamp on the other side of the stream when the sun went down. The trout jumped out of water to take them. While Nick walked through the little stretch of meadow alongside the stream, trout had jumped high out of water. Now as he looked down the river, the insects must be settling on the surface, for the trout were feeding steadily all down the stream. As far down the long stretch as he could see, the trout were rising, making circles all down the surface of the water, as though it were starting to rain. The ground rose, wooded and sandy, to overlook the meadow, the stretch of river and the swamp. Nick dropped his pack and rod-case and looked for a level piece of ground. He was very hungry and he wanted to make his camp before he cooked. Between two jack pines, the ground was quite level. He took the ax out of the pack and chopped out two projecting roots. That leveled a piece of ground large enough to sleep on. He smoothed out the sandy soil with his hand and pulled all the sweet fern bushes by their roots. His hands smelled good from the sweet fern. He smoothed the uprooted earth. He did not want anything making lumps under the blankets. When he had the ground smooth, he spread his three blankets. One he folded double, next to the ground. The other two he spread on top. With the ax he slit off a bright slab of pine from one of the stumps and split it into pegs for the tent. He wanted them long and solid to hold in the ground. With the tent unpacked and spread on the ground, the pack, leaning against a jackpine, looked much smaller. Nick tied the rope that served the tent for a ridge-pole to the trunk of one of the pine trees and pulled the tent up off the ground with the other end of the rope and tied it to the other pine. The tent hung on the rope like a canvas blanket on a clothesline. Nick poked a pole he had cut up under the back peak of the canvas and then made it a tent by pegging out the sides. He pegged the sides out taut and drove the pegs deep, hitting them down into the ground with the flat of the ax until the rope loops were buried and the canvas was drum tight. Across the open mouth of the tent Nick fixed cheesecloth to keep out mosquitoes. He crawled inside under the mosquito bar with various things from the pack to put at the head of the bed under the slant of the canvas. Inside the tent the light came through the brown canvas. It smelled pleasantly of canvas. Already there was something mysterious and homelike. Nick was happy as he crawled inside the tent. He had not been unhappy all day. This was different though. Now things were done. There had been this to do. Now it was done. It had been a hard trip. He was very tired. That was done. He had made his camp. He was settled. Nothing could touch him. It was a good place to camp. He was there, in the good place. He was in his home where he had made it. Now he was hungry. He came out, crawling under the cheesecloth. It was quite dark outside. It was lighter in the tent. Nick went over to the pack and found, with his fingers, a long nail in a paper sack of nails, in the bottom of the pack. He drove it into the pine tree, holding it close and hitting it gently with the flat of the ax. He hung the pack up on the nail. All his supplies were in the pack. They were off the ground and sheltered now. Nick was hungry. He did not believe he had ever been hungrier. He opened and emptied a can of pork and beans and a can of spaghetti into the frying pan. \'93I\'92ve got a right to eat this kind of stuff, if I\'92m willing to carry it,\'94 Nick said. His voice sounded strange in the darkening woods. He did not speak again. He started a fire with some chunks of pine he got with the ax from a stump. Over the fire he stuck a wire grill, pushing the four legs down into the ground with his boot. Nick put the frying pan on the grill over the flames. He was hungrier. The beans and spaghetti warmed. Nick stirred them and mixed them together. They began to bubble, making little bubbles that rose with difficulty to the surface. There was a good smell. Nick got out a bottle of tomato catchup and cut four slices of bread. The little bubbles were coming faster now. Nick sat down beside the fire and lifted the frying pan off. He poured about half the contents out into the tin plate. It spread slowly on the plate. Nick knew it was too hot. He poured on some tomato catchup. He knew the beans and spaghetti were still too hot. He looked at the fire, then at the tent, he was not going to spoil it all by burning his tongue. For years he had never enjoyed fried bananas because he had never been able to wait for them to cool. His tongue was very sensitive. He was very hungry. Across the river in the swamp, in the almost dark, he saw a mist rising. He looked at the tent once more. All right. He took a full spoonful from the plate. \'93Chrise,\'94 Nick said, \'93Geezus Chrise,\'94 he said happily. He ate the whole plateful before he remembered the bread. Nick finished the second plateful with the bread, mopping the plate shiny. He had not eaten since a cup of coffee and a ham sandwich in the station restaurant at St. Ignace. It had been a very fine experience. He had been that hungry before, but had not been able to satisfy it. He could have made camp hours before if he had wanted to. There were plenty of good places to camp on the river. But this was good. Nick tucked two big chips of pine under the grill. The fire flared up. He had forgotten to get water for the coffee. Out of the pack he got a folding canvas bucket and walked down the hill, across the edge of the meadow, to the stream. The other bank was in the white mist. The grass was wet and cold as he knelt on the bank and dipped the canvas bucket into the stream. It bellied and pulled hard in the current. The water was ice cold. Nick rinsed the bucket and carried it full up to the camp. Up away from the stream it was not so cold. Nick drove another big nail and hung up the bucket full of water. He dipped the coffee pot half full, put some more chips under the grill onto the fire and put the pot on. He could not remember which way he made coffee. He could remember an argument about it with Hopkins, but not which side he had taken. He decided to bring it to a boil. He remembered now that was Hopkins\'92s way. He had once argued about everything with Hopkins. While he waited for the coffee to boil, he opened a small can of apricots. He liked to open cans. He emptied the can of apricots out into a tin cup. While he watched the coffee on the fire, he drank the juice syrup of the apricots, carefully at first to keep from spilling, then meditatively, sucking the apricots down. They were better than fresh apricots. The coffee boiled as he watched. The lid came up and coffee and grounds ran down the side of the pot. Nick took it off the grill. It was a triumph for Hopkins. He put sugar in the empty apricot cup and poured some of the coffee out to cool. It was too hot to pour and he used his hat to hold the handle of the coffee pot. He would not let it steep in the pot at all. Not the first cup. It should be straight Hopkins all the way. Hop deserved that. He was a very serious coffee drinker. He was the most serious man Nick had ever known. Not heavy, serious. That was a long time ago. Hopkins spoke without moving his lips. He had played polo. He made millions of dollars in Texas. He had borrowed carfare to go to Chicago, when the wire came that his first big well had come in. He could have wired for money. That would have been too slow. They called Hop\'92s girl the Blonde Venus. Hop did not mind because she was not his real girl. Hopkins said very confidently that none of them would make fun of his real girl. He was right. Hopkins went away when the telegram came. That was on the Black River. It took eight days for the telegram to reach him. Hopkins gave away his .22 caliber Colt automatic pistol to Nick. He gave his camera to Bill. It was to remember him always by. They were all going fishing again next summer. The Hop Head was rich. He would get a yacht and they would all cruise along the north shore of Lake Superior. He was excited but serious. They said good-bye and all felt bad. It broke up the trip. They never saw Hopkins again. That was a long time ago on the Black River. Nick drank the coffee, the coffee according to Hopkins. The coffee was bitter. Nick laughed. It made a good ending to the story. His mind was starting to work. He knew he could choke it because he was tired enough. He spilled the coffee out of the pot and shook the grounds loose into the fire. He lit a cigarette and went inside the tent. He took off his shoes and trousers, sitting on the blankets, rolled the shoes up inside the trousers for a pillow and got in between the blankets. Out through the front of the tent he watched the glow of the fire, when the night wind blew on it. It was a quiet night. The swamp was perfectly quiet. Nick stretched under the blanket comfortably. A mosquito hummed close to his ear. Nick sat up and lit a match. The mosquito was on the canvas, over his head. Nick moved the match quickly up to it. The mosquito made a satisfactory hiss in the flame. The match went out. Nick lay down again under the blanket. He turned on his side and shut his eyes. He was sleepy. He felt sleep coming. He curled up under the blanket and went to sleep. CHAPTER XV They hanged Sam Cardinella at six o\'92clock in the morning in the corridor of the county jail. The corridor was high and narrow with tiers of cells on either side. All the cells were occupied. The men had been brought in for the hanging. Five men sentenced to be hanged were in the five top cells. Three of the men to be hanged were negroes. They were very frightened. One of the white men sat on his cot with his head in his hands. The other lay flat on his cot with a blanket wrapped around his head. They came out onto the gallows through a door in the wall. There were seven of them including two priests. They were carrying Sam Cardinella. He had been like that since about four o\'92clock in the morning. While they were strapping his legs together two guards held him up and the two priests were whispering to him. \'93Be a man, my son,\'94 said one priest. When they came toward him with the cap to go over his head Sam Cardinella lost control of his sphincter muscle. The guards who had been holding him up both dropped him. They were both disgusted. \'93How about a chair, Will?\'94 asked one of the guards. \'93Better get one,\'94 said a man in a derby hat. When they all stepped back on the scaf olding back of the drop, which was very heavy, built of oak and steel and swung on ball bearings, Sam Cardinella was left sitting there strapped tight, the younger of the two priests kneeling beside the chair. The priest skipped back onto the scaf olding just before the drop fell. Big Two-Hearted River Part II IN THE MORNING THE SUN WAS UP AND the tent was starting to get hot. Nick crawled out under the mosquito netting stretched across the mouth of the tent, to look at the morning. The grass was wet on his hands as he came out. He held his trousers and his shoes in his hands. The sun was just up over the hill. There was the meadow, the river and the swamp. There were birch trees in the green of the swamp on the other side of the river. The river was clear and smoothly fast in the early morning. Down about two hundred yards were three logs all the way across the stream. They made the water smooth and deep above them. As Nick watched, a mink crossed the river on the logs and went into the swamp. Nick was excited. He was excited by the early morning and the river. He was really too hurried to eat breakfast, but he knew he must. He built a little fire and put on the coffee pot. While the water was heating in the pot he took an empty bottle and went down over the edge of the high ground to the meadow. The meadow was wet with dew and Nick wanted to catch grasshoppers for bait before the sun dried the grass. He found plenty of good grasshoppers. They were at the base of the grass stems. Sometimes they clung to a grass stem. They were cold and wet with the dew, and could not jump until the sun warmed them. Nick picked them up, taking only the medium-sized brown ones, and put them into the bottle. He turned over a log and just under the shelter of the edge were several hundred hoppers. It was a grasshopper lodging house. Nick put about fifty of the medium browns into the bottle. While he was picking up the hoppers the others warmed in the sun and commenced to hop away. They flew when they hopped. At first they made one flight and stayed stiff when they landed, as though they were dead. Nick knew that by the time he was through with breakfast they would be as lively as ever. Without dew in the grass it would take him all day to catch a bottle full of good grasshoppers and he would have to crush many of them, slamming at them with his hat. He washed his hands at the stream. He was excited to be near it. Then he walked up to the tent. The hoppers were already jumping stiffly in the grass. In the bottle, warmed by the sun, they were jumping in a mass. Nick put in a pine stick as a cork. It plugged the mouth of the bottle enough, so the hoppers could not get out and left plenty of air passage. He had rolled the log back and knew he could get grasshoppers there every morning. Nick laid the bottle full of jumping grasshoppers against a pine trunk. Rapidly he mixed some buckwheat flour with water and stirred it smooth, one cup of flour, one cup of water. He put a handful of coffee in the pot and dipped a lump of grease out of a can and slid it sputtering across the hot skillet. On the smoking skillet he poured smoothly the buckwheat batter. It spread like lava, the grease spitting sharply. Around the edges the buckwheat cake began to firm, then brown, then crisp. The surface was bubbling slowly to porousness. Nick pushed under the browned under surface with a fresh pine chip. He shook the skillet sideways and the cake was loose on the surface. I won\'92t try and flop it, he thought. He slid the chip of clean wood all the way under the cake, and flopped it over onto its face. It sputtered in the pan. When it was cooked Nick regreased the skillet. He used all the batter. It made another big flapjack and one smaller one. Nick ate a big flapjack and a smaller one, covered with apple butter. He put apple butter on the third cake, folded it over twice, wrapped it in oiled paper and put it in his shirt pocket. He put the apple butter jar back in the pack and cut bread for two sandwiches. In the pack he found a big onion. He sliced it in two and peeled the silky outer skin. Then he cut one half into slices and made onion sandwiches. He wrapped them in oiled paper and buttoned them in the other pocket of his khaki shirt. He turned the skillet upside down on the grill, drank the coffee, sweetened and yellow brown with the condensed milk in it, and tidied up the camp. It was a good camp. Nick took his fly rod out of the leather rod-case, jointed it, and shoved the rod-case back into the tent. He put on the reel and threaded the line through the guides. He had to hold it from hand to hand, as he threaded it, or it would slip back through its own weight. It was a heavy, double tapered fly line. Nick had paid eight dollars for it a long time ago. It was made heavy to lift back in the air and come forward flat and heavy and straight to make it possible to cast a fly which has no weight. Nick opened the aluminum leader box. The leaders were coiled between the damp flannel pads. Nick had wet the pads at the water cooler on the train up to St. Ignace. In the damp pads the gut leaders had softened and Nick unrolled one and tied it by a loop at the end to the heavy fly line. He fastened a hook on the end of the leader. It was a small hook; very thin and springy. Nick took it from his hook book, sitting with the rod across his lap. He tested the knot and the spring of the rod by pulling the line taut. It was a good feeling. He was careful not to let the hook bite into his finger. He started down to the stream, holding his rod, the bottle of grasshoppers hung from his neck by a thong tied in half hitches around the neck of the bottle. His landing net hung by a hook from his belt. Over his shoulder was a long flour sack tied at each corner into an ear. The cord went over his shoulder. The sack flapped against his legs. Nick felt awkward and professionally happy with all his equipment hanging from him. The grasshopper bottle swung against his chest. In his shirt the breast pockets bulged against him with the lunch and his fly book. He stepped into the stream. It was a shock. His trousers clung tight to his legs. His shoes felt the gravel. The water was a rising cold shock. Rushing, the current sucked against his legs. Where he stepped in, the water was over his knees. He waded with the current. The gravel slid under his shoes. He looked down at the swirl of water below each leg and tipped up the bottle to get a grasshopper. The first grasshopper gave a jump in the neck of the bottle and went out into the water. He was sucked under in the whirl by Nick\'92s right leg and came to the surface a little way down stream. He floated rapidly, kicking. In a quick circle, breaking the smooth surface of the water, he disappeared. A trout had taken him. Another hopper poked his face out of the bottle. His antenn\'e6 wavered. He was getting his front legs out of the bottle to jump. Nick took him by the head and held him while he threaded the slim hook under his chin, down through his thorax and into the last segments of his abdomen. The grasshopper took hold of the hook with his front feel, spitting tobacco juice on it. Nick dropped him into the water. Holding the rod in his right hand he let out line against the pull of the grasshopper in the current. He stripped off line from the reel with his left hand and let it run free. He could see the hopper in the little waves of the current. It went out of sight. There was a tug on the line. Nick pulled against the taut line. It was his first strike. Holding the now living rod across the current, he brought in the line with his left hand. The rod bent in jerks, the trout pumping against the current. Nick knew it was a small one. He lifted the rod straight up in the air. It bowed with the pull. He saw the trout in the water jerking with his head and body against the shifting tangent of the line in the stream. Nick took the line in his left hand and pulled the trout, thumping tiredly against the current, to the surface. His back was mottled the clear, water-over-gravel color, his side flashing in the sun. The rod under his right arm, Nick stooped, dipping his right hand into the current. He held the trout, never still, with his moist right hand, while he unhooked the barb from his mouth, then dropped him back into the stream. He hung unsteadily in the current, then settled to the bottom beside a stone. Nick reached down his hand to touch him, his arm to the elbow under water. The trout was steady in the moving stream, resting on the gravel, beside a stone. As Nick\'92s fingers touched him, touched his smooth, cool, underwater feeling he was gone, gone in a shadow across the bottom of the stream. He\'92s all right, Nick thought. He was only tired. He had wet his hand before he touched the trout, so he would not disturb the delicate mucus that covered him. If a trout was touched with a dry hand, a white fungus attacked the unprotected spot. Years before when he had fished crowded streams, with fly fishermen ahead of him and behind him, Nick had again and again come on dead trout, furry with white fungus, drifted against a rock, or floating belly up in some pool. Nick did not like to fish with other men on the river. Unless they were of your party, they spoiled it. He wallowed down the stream, above his knees in the current, through the fifty yards of shallow water above the pile of logs that crossed the stream. He did not rebait his hook and held it in his hand as he waded. He was certain he could catch small trout in the shallows, but he did not want them. There would be no big trout in the shallows this time of day. Now the water deepened up his thighs sharply and coldly. Ahead was the smooth dammed-back flood of water above the logs. The water was smooth and dark; on the left, the lower edge of the meadow; on the right the swamp. Nick leaned back against the current and took a hopper from the bottle. He threaded the hopper on the hook and spat on him for good luck. Then he pulled several yards of line from the reel and tossed the hopper out ahead onto the fast, dark water. It floated down towards the logs, then the weight of the line pulled the bait under the surface. Nick held the rod in his right hand, letting the line run out through his fingers. There was a long tug. Nick struck and the rod came alive and dangerous, bent double, the line tightening, coming out of water, tightening, all in a heavy, dangerous, steady pull. Nick felt the moment when the leader would break if the strain increased and let the line go. The reel ratcheted into a mechanical shriek as the line went out in a rush. Too fast. Nick could not check it, the line rushing out, the reel note rising as the line ran out. With the core of the reel showing, his heart feeling stopped with the excitement, leaning back against the current that mounted icily his thighs, Nick thumbed the reel hard with his left hand. It was awkward getting his thumb inside the fly reel frame. As he put on pressure the line tightened into sudden hardness and beyond the logs a huge trout went high out of water. As he jumped, Nick lowered the tip of the rod. But he felt, as he dropped the tip to ease the strain, the moment when the strain was too great; the hardness too tight. Of course, the leader had broken. There was no mistaking the feeling when all spring left the line and it became dry and hard. Then it went slack. His mouth dry, his heart down, Nick reeled in. He had never seen so big a trout. There was a heaviness, a power not to be held, and then the bulk of him, as he jumped. He looked as broad as a salmon. Nick\'92s hand was shaky. He reeled in slowly. The thrill had been too much. He felt, vaguely, a little sick, as though it would be better to sit down. The leader had broken where the hook was tied to it. Nick took it in his hand. He thought of the trout somewhere on the bottom, holding himself steady over the gravel, far down below the light, under the logs, with the hook in his jaw. Nick knew the trout\'92s teeth would cut through the snell of the hook. The hook would imbed itself in his jaw. He\'92d bet the trout was angry. Anything that size would be angry. That was a trout. He had been solidly hooked. Solid as a rock. He felt like a rock, too, before he started off. By God, he was a big one. By God, he was the biggest one I ever heard of. Nick climbed out onto the meadow and stood, water running down his trousers and out of his shoes, his shoes squelchy. He went over and sat on the logs. He did not want to rush his sensations any. He wriggled his toes in the water, in his shoes, and got out a cigarette from his breast pocket. He lit it and tossed the match into the fast water below the logs. A tiny trout rose at the match, as it swung around in the fast current. Nick laughed. He would finish the cigarette. He sat on the logs, smoking, drying in the sun, the sun warm on his back, the river shallow ahead entering the woods, curving into the woods, shallows, light glittering, big water-smooth rocks, cedars along the bank and white birches, the logs warm in the sun, smooth to sit on, without bark, gray to the touch; slowly the feeling of disappointment left him. It went away slowly, the feeling of disappointment that came sharply after the thrill that made his shoulders ache. It was all right now. His rod lying out on the logs, Nick tied a new hook on the leader, pulling the gut tight until it grimped into itself in a hard knot. He baited up, then picked up the rod and walked to the far end of the logs to get into the water, where it was not too deep. Under and beyond the logs was a deep pool. Nick walked around the shallow shelf near the swamp shore until he came out on the shallow bed of the stream. On the left, where the meadow ended and the woods began, a great elm tree was uprooted. Gone over in a storm, it lay back into the woods, its roots clotted with dirt, grass growing in them, rising a solid bank beside the stream. The river cut to the edge of the uprooted tree. From where Nick stood he could see deep channels, like ruts, cut in the shallow bed of the stream by the flow of the current. Pebbly where he stood and pebbly and full of boulders beyond; where it curved near the tree roots, the bed of the stream was marly and between the ruts of deep water green weed fronds swung in the current. Nick swung the rod back over his shoulder and forward, and the line, curving forward, laid the grasshopper down on one of the deep channels in the weeds. A trout struck and Nick hooked him. Holding the rod far out toward the uprooted tree and sloshing backward in the current, Nick worked the trout, plunging, the rod bending alive, out of the danger of the weeds into the open river. Holding the rod, pumping alive against the current, Nick brought the trout in. He rushed, but always came, the spring of the rod yielding to the rushes, sometimes jerking under water, but always bringing him in. Nick eased downstream with the rushes. The rod above his head he led the trout over the net, then lifted. The trout hung heavy in the net, mottled trout back and silver sides in the meshes. Nick unhooked him; heavy sides, good to hold, big undershot jaw, and slipped him, heaving and big sliding, into the long sack that hung from his shoulders in the water. Nick spread the mouth of the sack against the current and it filled, heavy with water. He held it up, the bottom in the stream, and the water poured out through the sides. Inside at the bottom was the big trout, alive in the water. Nick moved downstream. The sack out ahead of him sunk heavy in the water, pulling from his shoulders. It was getting hot, the sun hot on the back of his neck. Nick had one good trout. He did not care about getting many trout. Now the stream was shallow and wide. There were trees along both banks. The trees of the left bank made short shadows on the current in the forenoon sun. Nick knew there were trout in each shadow. In the afternoon, after the sun had crossed toward the hills, the trout would be in the cool shadows on the other side of the stream. The very biggest ones would lie up close to the bank. You could always pick them up there on the Black. When the sun was down they all moved out into the current. Just when the sun made the water blinding in the glare before it went down, you were liable to strike a big trout anywhere in the current. It was almost impossible to fish then, the surface of the water was blinding as a mirror in the sun. Of course, you could fish upstream, but in a stream like the Black, or this, you had to wallow against the current and in a deep place, the water piled up on you. It was no fun to fish upstream with this much current. Nick moved along through the shallow stretch watching the banks for deep holes. A beech tree grew close beside the river, so that the branches hung down into the water. The stream went back in under the leaves. There were always trout in a place like that. Nick did not care about fishing that hole. He was sure he would get hooked in the branches. It looked deep though. He dropped the grasshopper so the current took it under water, back in under the overhanging branch. The line pulled hard and Nick struck. The trout threshed heavily, half out of water in the leaves and branches. The line was caught. Nick pulled hard and the trout was off. He reeled in and holding the hook in his hand, walked down the stream. Ahead, close to the left bank, was a big log. Nick saw it was hollow; pointing up river the current entered it smoothly, only a little ripple spread each side of the log. The water was deepening. The top of the hollow log was gray and dry. It was partly in the shadow. Nick took the cork out of the grasshopper bottle and a hopper clung to it. He picked him off, hooked him and tossed him out. He held the rod far out so that the hopper on the water moved into the current flowing into the hollow log. Nick lowered the rod and the hopper floated in. There was a heavy strike. Nick swung the rod against the pull. It felt as though he were hooked into the log itself, except for the live feeling. He tried to force the fish out into the current. It came, heavily. The line went slack and Nick thought the trout was gone. Then he saw him, very near, in the current, shaking his head, trying to get the hook out. His mouth was clamped shut. He was fighting the hook in the clear flowing current. Looping in the line with his left hand, Nick swung the rod to make the line taut and tried to lead the trout toward the net, but he was gone, out of sight, the line pumping. Nick fought him against the current, letting him thump in the water against the spring of the rod. He shifted the rod to his left hand, worked the trout upstream, holding his weight, fighting on the rod, and then let him down into the net. He lifted him clear of the water, a heavy half circle in the net, the net dripping, unhooked him and slid him into the sack. He spread the mouth of the sack and looked down in at the two big trout alive in the water. Through the deepening water, Nick waded over to the hollow log. He took the sack off, over his head, the trout flopping as it came out of water, and hung it so the trout were deep in the water. Then he pulled himself up on the log and sat, the water from his trouser and boots running down into the stream. He laid his rod down, moved along to the shady end of the log and took the sandwiches out of his pocket. He dipped the sandwiches in the cold water. The current carried away the crumbs. He ate the sandwiches and dipped his hat full of water to drink, the water running out through his hat just ahead of his drinking. It was cool in the shade, sitting on the log. He took a cigarette out and struck a match to light it. The match sunk into the gray wood, making a tiny furrow. Nick leaned over the side of the log, found a hard place and lit the match. He sat smoking and watching the river. Ahead the river narrowed and went into a swamp. The river became smooth and deep and the swamp looked solid with cedar trees, their trunks close together, their branches solid. It would not be possible to walk through a swamp like that. The branches grew so low. You would have to keep almost level with the ground to move at all. You could not crash through the branches. That must be why the animals that lived in swamps were built the way they were, Nick thought. He wished he had brought something to read. He felt like reading. He did not feel like going on into the swamp. He looked down the river. A big cedar slanted all the way across the stream. Beyond that the river went into the swamp. Nick did not want to go in there now. He felt a reaction against deep wading with the water deepening up under his armpits, to hook big trout in places impossible to land them. In the swamp the banks were bare, the big cedars came together overhead, the sun did not come through, except in patches; in the fast deep water, in the half light, the fishing would be tragic. In the swamp fishing was a tragic adventure. Nick did not want it. He did not want to go down the stream any further today. He took out his knife, opened it and stuck it in the log. Then he pulled up the sack, reached into it and brought out one of the trout. Holding him near the tail, hard to hold, alive, in his hand, he whacked him against the log. The trout quivered, rigid. Nick laid him on the log in the shade and broke the neck of the other fish the same way. He laid them side by side on the log. They were fine trout. Nick cleaned them, slitting them from the vent to the tip of the jaw. All the insides and the gills and tongue came out in one piece. They were both males; long gray-white strips of milt, smooth and clean. All the insides clean and compact, coming out all together. Nick tossed the offal ashore for the minks to find. He washed the trout in the stream. When he held them back up in the water they looked like live fish. Their color was not gone yet. He washed his hands and dried them on the log. Then he laid the trout on the sack spread out on the log, rolled them up in it, tied the bundle and put it in the landing net. His knife was still standing, blade stuck in the log. He cleaned it on the wood and put it in his pocket. Nick stood up on the log, holding his rod, the landing net hanging heavy, then stepped into the water and splashed ashore. He climbed the bank and cut up into the woods, toward the high ground. He was going back to camp. He looked back. The river just showed through the trees. There were plenty of days coming when he could fish the swamp. L\'92ENVOI The king was working in the garden. He seemed very glad to see me. We walked through the garden. This is the queen, he said. She was clipping a rose bush. Oh how do you do, she said. We sat down at a table under a big tree and the king ordered whiskey and soda. We have good whiskey anyway, he said. The revolutionary committee, he told me, would not allow him to go outside the palace grounds. Plastiras is a very good man I believe, he said, but frightfully dif icult. I think he did right though shooting those chaps. If Kerensky had shot a few men things might have been altogether dif erent. Of course the great thing in this sort of an af air is not to be shot oneself! It was very jolly. We talked for a long time. Like all Greeks he wanted to go to America. The Undefeated MANUEL GARCIA CLIMBED THE STAIRS to Don Miguel Retana\'92s office. He set down his suitcase and knocked on the door. There was no answer. Manuel, standing in the hallway, felt there was someone in the room. He felt it through the door. \'93Retana,\'94 he said, listening. There was no answer. He\'92s there, all right, Manuel thought. \'93Retana,\'94 he said and banged the door. \'93Who\'92s there?\'94 said someone in the office. \'93Me, Manolo,\'94 Manuel said. \'93What do you want?\'94 asked the voice. \'93I want to work,\'94 Manuel said. Something in the door clicked several times and it swung open. Manuel went in, carrying his suitcase. A little man sat behind a desk at the far side of the room. Over his head was a bull\'92s head, stuffed by a Madrid taxidermist; on the walls were framed photographs and bull-fight posters. The little man sat looking at Manuel. \'93I thought they\'92d killed you,\'94 he said. Manuel knocked with his knuckles on the desk. The little man sat looking at him across the desk. \'93How many corridas you had this year?\'94 Retana asked. \'93One,\'94 he answered. \'93Just that one?\'94 the little man asked. \'93That\'92s all.\'94 \'93I read about it in the papers,\'94 Retana said. He leaned back in the chair and looked at Manuel. Manuel looked up at the stuffed bull. He had seen it often before. He felt a certain family interest in it. It had killed his brother, the promising one, about nine years ago. Manuel remembered the day. There was a brass plate on the oak shield the bull\'92s head was mounted on. Manuel could not read it, but he imagined it was in memory of his brother. Well, he had been a good kid. The plate said: \'93The Bull \'91Mariposa\'92 of the Duke of Veragua, which accepted 9 varas for 7 caballos, and caused the death of Antonio Garcia, Novillero, April 27, 1909.\'94 Retana saw him looking at the stuffed bull\'92s head. \'93The lot the Duke sent me for Sunday will make a scandal,\'94 he said. \'93They\'92re all bad in the legs. What do they say about them at the Caf\'e9?\'94 \'93I don\'92t know,\'94 Manuel said. \'93I just got in.\'94 \'93Yes,\'94 Retana said. \'93You still have your bag.\'94 He looked at Manuel, leaning back behind the big desk. \'93Sit down,\'94 he said. \'93Take off your cap.\'94 Manuel sat down; his cap off, his face was changed. He looked pale, and his coleta pinned forward on his head, so that it would not show under the cap, gave him a strange look. \'93You don\'92t look well,\'94 Retana said. \'93I just got out of the hospital,\'94 Manuel said. \'93I heard they\'92d cut your leg off,\'94 Retana said. \'93No,\'94 said Manuel. \'93It got all right.\'94 Retana leaned forward across the desk and pushed a wooden box of cigarettes toward Manuel. \'93Have a cigarette,\'94 he said. \'93Thanks.\'94 Manuel lit it. \'93Smoke?\'94 he said, offering the match to Retana. \'93No,\'94 Retana waved his hand, \'93I never smoke.\'94 Retana watched him smoking. \'93Why don\'92t you get a job and go to work?\'94 he said. \'93I don\'92t want to work,\'94 Manuel said. \'93I am a bullfighter.\'94 \'93There aren\'92t any bullfighters any more,\'94 Retana said. \'93I\'92m a bullfighter,\'94 Manuel said. \'93Yes, while you\'92re in there,\'94 Retana said. Manuel laughed. Retana sat, saying nothing and looking at Manuel. \'93I\'92ll put you in a nocturnal if you want,\'94 Retana offered. \'93When?\'94 Manuel asked. \'93Tomorrow night.\'94 \'93I don\'92t like to substitute for anybody,\'94 Manuel said. That was the way they all got killed. That was the way Salvador got killed. He tapped with his knuckles on the table. \'93It\'92s all I\'92ve got,\'94 Retana said. \'93Why don\'92t you put me on next week?\'94 Manuel suggested. \'93You wouldn\'92t draw,\'94 Retana said. \'93All they want is Litri and Rubito and La Torre. Those kids are good.\'94 \'93They\'92d come to see me get it,\'94 Manuel said, hopefully. \'93No, they wouldn\'92t. They don\'92t know who you are any more.\'94 \'93I\'92ve got a lot of stuff,\'94 Manuel said. \'93I\'92m offering to put you on tomorrow night,\'94 Retana said. \'93You can work with young Hernandez and kill two novillos after the Charlots.\'94 \'93Whose novillos?\'94 Manuel asked. \'93I don\'92t know. Whatever stuff they\'92ve got in the corrals. What the veterinaries won\'92t pass in the daytime.\'94 \'93I don\'92t like to substitute,\'94 Manuel said. \'93You can take it or leave it,\'94 Retana said. He leaned forward over the papers. He was no longer interested. The appeal that Manuel had made to him for a moment when he thought of the old days was gone. He would like to get him to substitute for Larita because he could get him cheaply. He could get others cheaply too. He would like to help him though. Still he had given him the chance. It was up to him. \'93How much do I get?\'94 Manuel asked. He was still playing with the idea of refusing. But he knew he could not refuse. \'93Two hundred and fifty pesetas,\'94 Retana said. He had thought of five hundred, but when he opened his mouth it said two hundred and fifty. \'93You pay Villalta seven thousand,\'94 Manuel said. \'93You\'92re not Villalta,\'94 Retana said. \'93I know it,\'94 Manuel said. \'93He draws it, Manolo,\'94 Retana said in explanation. \'93Sure,\'94 said Manuel. He stood up. \'93Give me three hundred, Retana.\'94 \'93All right,\'94 Retana agreed. He reached in the drawer for a paper. \'93Can I have fifty now?\'94 Manuel asked. \'93Sure,\'94 said Retana. He took a fifty-peseta note out of his pocket-book and laid it, spread out flat, on the table. Manuel picked it up and put it in his pocket. \'93What about a cuadrilla?\'94 he asked. \'93There\'92s the boys that always work for me nights,\'94 Retana said. \'93They\'92re all right.\'94 \'93How about picadors?\'94 Manuel asked. \'93They\'92re not much,\'94 Retana admitted. \'93I\'92ve got to have one good pic,\'94 Manuel said. \'93Get him then,\'94 Retana said. \'93Go and get him.\'94 \'93Not out of this,\'94 Manuel said. \'93I\'92m not paying for any cuadrilla out of sixty duros.\'94 Retana said nothing but looked at Manuel across the big desk. \'93You know I\'92ve got to have one good pic,\'94 Manuel said. Retana said nothing but looked at Manuel from a long way off. \'93It isn\'92t right,\'94 Manuel said. Retana was still considering him, leaning back in his chair, considering him from a long way away. \'93There\'92re the regular pics,\'94 he offered. \'93I know,\'94 Manuel said. \'93I know your regular pics.\'94 Retana did not smile. Manuel knew it was over. \'93All I want is an even break,\'94 Manuel said reasoningly. \'93When I go out there I want to be able to call my shots on the bull. It only takes one good picador.\'94 He was talking to a man who was no longer listening. \'93If you want something extra,\'94 Retana said, \'93go and get it. There will be a regular cuadrilla out there. Bring as many of your own pics as you want. The charlotada is over by 10.30.\'94 \'93All right,\'94 Manuel said. \'93If that\'92s the way you feel about it.\'94 \'93That\'92s the way,\'94 Retana said. \'93I\'92ll see you tomorrow night,\'94 Manuel said. \'93I\'92ll be out there,\'94 Retana said. Manuel picked up his suitcase and went out. \'93Shut the door,\'94 Retana called. Manuel looked back. Retana was sitting forward looking at some papers. Manuel pulled the door tight until it clicked. He went down the stairs and out of the door into the hot brightness of the street. It was very hot in the street and the light on the white buildings was sudden and hard on his eyes. He walked down the shady side of the steep street toward the Puerta del Sol. The shade felt solid and cool as running water. The heat came suddenly as he crossed the intersecting streets. Manuel saw no one he knew in all the people he passed. Just before the Puerta del Sol he turned into a caf\'e9. It was quiet in the caf\'e9. There were a few men sitting at tables against the wall. At one table four men played cards. Most of the men sat against the wall smoking, empty coffee-cups and liqueurglasses before them on the tables. Manuel went through the long room to a small room in back. A man sat at a table in the corner asleep. Manuel sat down at one of the tables. A waiter came in and stood beside Manuel\'92s table. \'93Have you seen Zurito?\'94 Manuel asked him. \'93He was in before lunch,\'94 the waiter answered. \'93He won\'92t be back before five o\'92clock.\'94 \'93Bring me some coffee and milk and a shot of the ordinary,\'94 Manuel said. The waiter came back into the room carrying a tray with a big coffee-glass and a liqueur-glass on it. In his left hand he held a bottle of brandy. He swung these down to the table and a boy who had followed him poured coffee and milk into the glass from two shiny, spouted pots with long handles. Manuel took off his cap and the waiter noticed his pigtail pinned forward on his head. He winked at the coffee-boy as he poured out the brandy into the little glass beside Manuel\'92s coffee. The coffee-boy looked at Manuel\'92s pale face curiously. \'93You fighting here?\'94 asked the waiter, corking up the bottle. \'93Yes,\'94 Manuel said. \'93Tomorrow.\'94 The waiter stood there, holding the bottle on one hip. \'93You in the Charlie Chaplins?\'94 he asked. The coffee-boy looked away, embarrassed. \'93No. In the ordinary.\'94 \'93I thought they were going to have Chaves and Hernandez,\'94 the waiter said. \'93No. Me and another.\'94 \'93Who? Chaves or Hernandez?\'94 \'93Hernandez, I think.\'94 \'93What\'92s the matter with Chaves?\'94 \'93He got hurt.\'94 \'93Where did you hear that?\'94 \'93Retana.\'94 \'93Hey, Looie,\'94 the waiter called to the next room, \'93Chaves got cogida.\'94 Manuel had taken the wrapper off the lumps of sugar and dropped them into his coffee. He stirred it and drank it down, sweet, hot, and warming in his empty stomach. He drank off the brandy. \'93Give me another shot of that,\'94 he said to the waiter. The waiter uncorked the bottle and poured the glass full, slopping another drink into the saucer. Another waiter had come up in front of the table. The coffee-boy was gone. \'93Is Chaves hurt bad?\'94 the second waiter asked Manuel. \'93I don\'92t know,\'94 Manuel said, \'93Retana didn\'92t say.\'94 \'93A hell of a lot he cares,\'94 the tall waiter said. Manuel had not seen him before. He must have just come up. \'93If you stand in with Retana in this town, you\'92re a made man,\'94 the tall waiter said. \'93If you aren\'92t in with him, you might just as well go out and shoot yourself.\'94 \'93You said it,\'94 the other waiter who had come in said. \'93You said it then.\'94 \'93You\'92re right I said it,\'94 said the tall waiter. \'93I know what I\'92m talking about when I talk about that bird.\'94 \'93Look what he\'92s done for Villalta,\'94 the first waiter said. \'93And that ain\'92t all,\'94 the tall waiter said. \'93Look what he\'92s done for Marcial Lalanda. Look what he\'92s done for Nacional.\'94 \'93You said it, kid,\'94 agreed the short waiter. Manuel looked at them, standing talking in front of his table. He had drunk his second brandy. They had forgotten about him. They were not interested in him. \'93Look at that bunch of camels,\'94 the tall waiter went on. \'93Did you ever see this Nacional II?\'94 \'93I seen him last Sunday, didn\'92t I?\'94 the original waiter said. \'93He\'92s a giraffe,\'94 the short waiter said. \'93What did I tell you?\'94 the tall waiter said. \'93Those are Retana\'92s boys.\'94 \'93Say, give me another shot of that,\'94 Manuel said. He had poured the brandy the waiter had slopped over in the saucer into his glass and drank it while they were talking. The original waiter poured his glass full mechanically, and the three of them went out of the room talking. In the far corner the man was still asleep, snoring slightly on the intaking breath, his head back against the wall. Manuel drank his brandy. He felt sleepy himself. It was too hot to go out into the town. Besides there was nothing to do. He wanted to see Zurito. He would go to sleep while he waited. He kicked his suitcase under the table to be sure it was there. Perhaps it would be better to put it back under the seat, against the wall. He leaned down and shoved it under. Then he leaned forward on the table and went to sleep. When he woke there was someone sitting across the table from him. It was a big man with a heavy brown face like an Indian. He had been sitting there some time. He had waved the waiter away and sat reading the paper and occasionally looking down at Manuel, asleep, his head on the table. He read the paper laboriously, forming the words with his lips as he read. When it tired him he looked at Manuel. He sat heavily in the chair, his black Cordoba hat tipped forward. Manuel sat up and looked at him. \'93Hello, Zurito,\'94 he said. \'93Hello, kid,\'94 the big man said. \'93I\'92ve been asleep.\'94 Manuel rubbed his forehead with the back of his fist. \'93I thought maybe you were.\'94 \'93How\'92s everything?\'94 \'93Good. How is everything with you?\'94 \'93Not so good.\'94 They were both silent. Zurito, the picador, looked at Manuel\'92s white face. Manuel looked down at the picador\'92s enormous hands folding the paper to put away in his pocket. \'93I got a favor to ask you, Manos,\'94 Manuel said. Manosduros was Zurito\'92s nickname. He never heard it without thinking of his huge hands. He put them forward on the table self-consciously. \'93Let\'92s have a drink,\'94 he said. \'93Sure,\'94 said Manuel. The waiter came and went and came again. He went out of the room looking back at the two men at the table. \'93What\'92s the matter, Manolo?\'94 Zurito set down his glass. \'93Would you pic two bulls for me tomorrow night?\'94 Manuel asked, looking up at Zurito across the table. \'93No,\'94 said Zurito. \'93I\'92m not pic-ing.\'94 Manuel looked down at his glass. He had expected that answer; now he had it. Well, he had it. \'93I\'92m sorry, Manolo, but I\'92m not pic-ing.\'94 Zurito looked at his hands. \'93That\'92s all right,\'94 Manuel said. \'93I\'92m too old,\'94 Zurito said. \'93I just asked you,\'94 Manuel said. \'93Is it the nocturnal tomorrow?\'94 \'93That\'92s it. I figured if I had just one good pic, I could get away with it.\'94 \'93How much are you getting?\'94 \'93Three hundred pesetas.\'94 \'93I get more than that for pic-ing.\'94 \'93I know,\'94 said Manuel. \'93I didn\'92t have any right to ask you.\'94 \'93What do you keep on doing it for?\'94 Zurito asked. \'93Why don\'92t you cut off your coleta, Manolo?\'94 \'93I don\'92t know,\'94 Manuel said. \'93You\'92re pretty near as old as I am,\'94 Zurito said. \'93I don\'92t know,\'94 Manuel said. \'93I got to do it. If I can fix it so that I get an even break, that\'92s all I want. I got to stick with it, Manos.\'94 \'93No, you don\'92t.\'94 \'93Yes, I do. I\'92ve tried keeping away from it.\'94 \'93I know how you feel. But it isn\'92t right. You ought to get out and stay out.\'94 \'93I can\'92t do it. Besides, I\'92ve been going good lately.\'94 Zurito looked at his face. \'93You\'92ve been in the hospital.\'94 \'93But I was going great when I got hurt.\'94 Zurito said nothing. He tipped the cognac out of his saucer into his glass. \'93The papers said they never saw a better faena,\'94 Manuel said. Zurito looked at him. \'93You know when I get going I\'92m good,\'94 Manuel said. \'93You\'92re too old,\'94 the picador said. \'93No,\'94 said Manuel. \'93You\'92re ten years older than I am.\'94 \'93With me it\'92s different.\'94 \'93I\'92m not too old,\'94 Manuel said. They sat silent, Manuel watching the picador\'92s face. \'93I was going great till I got hurt,\'94 Manuel offered. \'93You ought to have seen me, Manos,\'94 Manuel said, reproachfully. \'93I don\'92t want to see you,\'94 Zurito said. \'93It makes me nervous.\'94 \'93You haven\'92t seen me lately.\'94 \'93I\'92ve seen you plenty.\'94 Zurito looked at Manuel, avoiding his eyes. \'93You ought to quit it, Manolo.\'94 \'93I can\'92t,\'94 Manuel said. \'93I\'92m going good now, I tell you.\'94 Zurito leaned forward, his hands on the table. \'93Listen. I\'92ll pic for you and if you don\'92t go big tomorrow night, you\'92ll quit. See? Will you do that?\'94 \'93Sure.\'94 Zurito leaned back, relieved. \'93You got to quit,\'94 he said. \'93No monkey business. You got to cut the coleta.\'94 \'93I won\'92t have to quit,\'94 Manuel said. \'93You watch me. I\'92ve got the stuff.\'94 Zurito stood up. He felt tired from arguing. \'93You got to quit,\'94 he said. \'93I\'92ll cut your coleta myself.\'94 \'93No, you won\'92t,\'94 Manuel said. \'93You won\'92t have a chance.\'94 Zurito called the waiter. \'93Come on,\'94 said Zurito. \'93Come on up to the house.\'94 Manuel reached under the seat for his suitcase. He was happy. He knew Zurito would pic for him. He was the best picador living. It was all simple now. \'93Come on up to the house and we\'92ll eat,\'94 Zurito said. Manuel stood in the patio de caballos waiting for the Charlie Chaplins to be over. Zurito stood beside him. Where they stood it was dark. The high door that led into the bull-ring was shut. Above them they heard a shout, then another shout of laughter. Then there was silence. Manuel liked the smell of the stables about the patio de caballos. It smelt good in the dark. There was another roar from the arena and then applause, prolonged applause, going on and on. \'93You ever seen these fellows?\'94 Zurito asked, big and looming beside Manuel in the dark. \'93No,\'94 Manuel said. \'93They\'92re pretty funny,\'94 Zurito said. He smiled to himself in the dark. The high, double, tight-fitting door into the bull-ring swung open and Manuel saw the ring in the hard light of the arc-lights, the plaza, dark all the way around, rising high; around the edge of the ring were running and bowing two men dressed like tramps, followed by a third in the uniform of a hotel bell-boy who stooped and picked up the hats and canes thrown down onto the sand and tossed them back up into the darkness. The electric light went on in the patio. \'93I\'92ll climb onto one of those ponies while you collect the kids,\'94 Zurito said. Behind them came the jingle of the mules, coming out to go into the arena and be hitched onto the dead bull. The members of the cuadrilla, who had been watching the burlesque from the runway between the barrera and the seals, came walking back and stood in a group talking, under the electric light in the patio. A good-looking lad in a silver-and-orange suit came up to Manuel and smiled. \'93I\'92m Hernandez,\'94 he said and put out his hand. Manuel shook it. \'93They\'92re regular elephants we\'92ve got tonight,\'94 the boy said cheerfully. \'93They\'92re big ones with horns,\'94 Manuel agreed. \'93You drew the worst lot,\'94 the boy said. \'93That\'92s all right,\'94 Manuel said. \'93The bigger they are, the more meat for the poor.\'94 \'93Where did you get that one?\'94 Hernandez grinned. \'93That\'92s an old one,\'94 Manuel said. \'93You line up your cuadrilla, so I can see what I\'92ve got.\'94 \'93You\'92ve got some good kids,\'94 Hernandez said. He was very cheerful. He had been on twice before in nocturnals and was beginning to get a following in Madrid. He was happy the fight would start in a few minutes. \'93Where are the pics?\'94 Manuel asked. \'93They\'92re back in the corrals fighting about who gets the beautiful horses,\'94 Hernandez grinned. The mules came through the gate in a rush, the whips snapping, bells jangling and the young bull ploughing a furrow of sand. They formed up for the paseo as soon as the bull had gone through. Manuel and Hernandez stood in front. The youths of the cuadrillas were behind, their heavy capes furled over their arms. In back, the four picadors, mounted, holding their steel-tipped pushpoles erect in the half-dark of the corral. \'93It\'92s a wonder Retana wouldn\'92t give us enough light to see the horses by,\'94 one picador said. He knows we\'92ll be happier if we don\'92t get too good a look at these skins,\'94 another pic answered. \'93This thing I\'92m on barely keeps me off the ground,\'94 the first picador said. \'93Well, they\'92re horses.\'94 \'93Sure, they\'92re horses.\'94 They talked, sitting their gaunt horses in the dark. Zurito said nothing. He had the only steady horse of the lot. He had tried him, wheeling him in the corrals and he responded to the bit and the spurs. He had taken the bandage off his right eye and cut the strings where they had tied his ears tight shut at the base. He was a good, solid horse, solid on his legs. That was all he needed. He intended to ride him all through the corrida. He had already, since he had mounted, sitting in the half-dark in the big, quilted saddle, waiting for the paseo, pic-ed through the whole corrida in his mind. The other picadors went on talking on both sides of him. He did not hear them. The two matadors stood together in front of their three peones, their capes furled over their left arms in the same fashion. Manuel was thinking about the three lads in back of him. They were all three Madrile\'f1os, like Hernandez, boys about nineteen. One of them, a gypsy, serious, aloof, and dark-faced, he liked the look of. He turned. \'93What\'92s your name, kid?\'94 he asked the gypsy. \'93Fuentes,\'94 the gypsy said. \'93That\'92s a good name,\'94 Manuel said. The gypsy smiled, showing his teeth. \'93You take the bull and give him a little run when he comes out,\'94 Manuel said. \'93All right,\'94 the gypsy said. His face was serious. He began to think about just what he would do. \'93Here she goes,\'94 Manuel said to Hernandez. \'93All right. We\'92ll go.\'94 Heads up, swinging with the music, their right arms swinging free, they stepped out, crossing the sanded arena under the arc-lights, the cuadrillas opening out behind, the picadors riding after, behind came the bull-ring servants and the jingling mules. The crowd applauded Hernandez as they marched across the arena. Arrogant, swinging, they looked straight ahead as they marched. They bowed before the president, and the procession broke up into its component parts. The bull-fighters went over to the barrera and changed their heavy mantles for the light fighting capes. The mules went out. The picadors galloped jerkily around the ring, and two rode out the gate they had come in by. The servants swept the sand smooth. Manuel drank a glass of water poured for him by one of Retana\'92s deputies, who was acting as his manager and sword-handler. Hernandez came over from speaking with his own manager. \'93You got a good hand, kid,\'94 Manuel complimented him. \'93They like me,\'94 Hernandez said happily. \'93How did the paseo go?\'94 Manuel asked Retana\'92s man. \'93Like a wedding,\'94 said the handler. \'93Fine. You came out like Joselito and Belmonte.\'94 Zurito rode by, a bulky equestrian statue. He wheeled his horse and faced him toward the toril on the far side of the ring where the bull would come out. It was strange under the arc-light. He pic-ed in the hot afternoon sun for big money. He didn\'92t like this arc-light business. He wished they would get started. Manuel went up to him. \'93Pic him, Manos,\'94 he said. \'93Cut him down to size for me.\'94 \'93I\'92ll pic him, kid,\'94 Zurito spat on the sand. \'93I\'92ll make him jump out of the ring.\'94 \'93Lean on him, Manos,\'94 Manuel said. \'93I\'92ll lean on him,\'94 Zurito said. \'93What\'92s holding it up?\'94 \'93He\'92s coming now,\'94 Manuel said. Zurito sat there, his feet in the box-stirrups, his great legs in the buckskin-covered armor gripping the horse, the reins in his left hand, the long pic held in his right hand, his broad hat well down over his eyes to shade them from the lights, watching the distant door of the toril. His horse\'92s ears quivered. Zurito patted him with his left hand. The red door of the toril swung back and for a moment Zurito looked into the empty passageway far across the arena. Then the bull came out in a rush, skidding on his four legs as he came out under the lights, then charging in a gallop, moving softly in a fast gallop, silent except as he woofed through wide nostrils as he charged, glad to be free after the dark pen. In the first row of seats, slightly bored, leaning forward to write on the cement wall in front of his knees, the substitute bull-fight critic of El Heraldo scribbled: \'93Campagnero, Negro, 42, came out at 90 miles an hour with plenty of gas\'97\'94 Manuel, leaning against the barrera, watching the bull, waved his hand and the gypsy ran out, trailing his cape. The bull, in full gallop, pivoted and charged the cape, his head down, his tail rising. The gypsy moved in a zigzag, and as he passed, the bull caught sight of him and abandoned the cape to charge the man. The gyp sprinted and vaulted the red fence of the barrera as the bull struck it with his horns. He tossed into it twice with his horns, banging into the wood blindly. The critic of El Heraldo lit a cigarette and tossed the match at the bull, then wrote in his notebook, \'93large and with enough horns to satisfy the cash customers, Campagnero showed a tendency to cut into the terrain of the bull-fighters.\'94 Manuel stepped out on the hard sand as the bull banged into the fence. Out of the corner of his eye he saw Zurito sitting the white horse close to the barrera, about a quarter of the way around the ring to the left. Manuel held the cape close in front of him, a fold in each hand, and shouted at the bull. \'93Huh! Huh!\'94 The bull turned, seemed to brace against the fence as he charged in a scramble, driving into the cape as Manuel side-stepped, pivoted on his heels with the charge of the bull, and swung the cape just ahead of the horns. At the end of the swing he was facing the bull again and held the cape in the same position close in front of his body, and pivoted again as the bull recharged. Each time, as he swung, the crowd shouted. Four times he swung with the bull, lifting the cape so it billowed full, and each time bringing the bull around to charge again. Then, at the end of the fifth swing, he held the cape against his hip and pivoted, so the cape swung out like a ballet dancer\'92s skirt and wound the bull around himself like a belt, to step clear, leaving the bull facing Zurito on the white horse, come up and planted firm, the horse facing the bull, its ears forward, its lips nervous, Zurito, his hat over his eyes, leaning forward, the long pole sticking out before and behind in a sharp angle under his right arm, held half-way down, the triangular iron point facing the bull. El Heraldo\'92s second-string critic, drawing on his cigarette, his eyes on the bull, wrote: \'93The veteran Manolo designed a series of acceptable ver\'f3nicas, ending in a very Belmontistic recorte that earned applause from the regulars, and we entered the tercio of the cavalry.\'94 Zurito sat his horse, measuring the distance between the bull and the end of the pic. As he looked, the bull gathered himself together and charged, his eyes on the horse\'92s chest. As he lowered his head to hook, Zurito sunk the point of the pic in the swelling hump of muscle above the bull\'92s shoulder, leaned all his weight on the shaft, and with his left hand pulled the white horse into the air, front hoofs pawing, and swung him to the right as he pushed the bull under and through so the horns passed safely under the horse\'92s belly and the horse came down, quivering, the bull\'92s tail brushing his chest as he charged the cape Hernandez offered him. Hernandez ran sideways, taking the bull out and away with the cape, toward the other picador. He fixed him with a swing of the cape, squarely facing the horse and rider, and stepped back. As the bull saw the horse he charged. The picador\'92s lance slid along his back, and as the shock of the charge lifted the horse, the picador was already half-way out of the saddle, lifting his right leg clear as he missed with the lance and falling to the left side to keep the horse between him and the bull. The horse, lifted and gored, crashed over with the bull driving into him, the picador gave a shove with his boots against the horse and lay clear, waiting to be lifted and hauled away and put on his feet. Manuel let the bull drive into the fallen horse; he was in no hurry, the picador was safe; besides, it did a picador like that good to worry. He\'92d stay on longer next time. Lousy pics! He looked across the sand at Zurito a little way out from the barrera, his horse rigid, waiting. \'93Huh!\'94 he called to the bull, \'93Tomar!\'94 holding the cape in both hands so it would catch his eye. The bull detached himself from the horse and charged the cape, and Manuel, running sideways and holding the cape spread wide, stopped, swung on his heels, and brought the bull sharply around facing Zurito. \'93Campagnero accepted a pair of varas for the death of one rosinante, with Hernandez and Manolo at the quites,\'94 El Heraldo\'92s critic wrote. \'93He pressed on the iron and clearly showed he was no horse-lover. The veteran Zurito resurrected some of his old stuff with the pike-pole, notably the suerte\'97\'94 \'93Ol\'e9! Ol\'e9!\'94 the man sitting beside him shouted. The shout was lost in the roar of the crowd, and he slapped the critic on the back. The critic looked up to see Zurito, directly below him, leaning far out over his horse, the length of the pic rising in a sharp angle under his armpit, holding the pic almost by the point, bearing down with all his weight, holding the bull off, the bull pushing and driving to get at the horse, and Zurito, far out, on top of him, holding him, holding him, and slowly pivoting the horse against the pressure, so that at last he was clear. Zurito felt the moment when the horse was clear and the bull could come past, and relaxed the absolute steel lock of his resistance, and the triangular steel point of the pic ripped in the bull\'92s hump of shoulder muscle as he tore loose to find Hernandez\'92s cape before his muzzle. He charged blindly into the cape and the boy took him out into the open arena. Zurito sat patting his horse and looking at the bull charging the cape that Hernandez swung for him out under the bright light while the crowd shouted. \'93You see that one?\'94 he said to Manuel. \'93It was a wonder,\'94 Manuel said. \'93I got him that time,\'94 Zurito said. \'93Look at him now.\'94 At the conclusion of a closely turned pass of the cape the bull slid to his knees. He was up at once, but far out across the sand Manuel and Zurito saw the shine of the pumping flow of blood, smooth against the black of the bull\'92s shoulder. \'93I got him that time,\'94 Zurito said. \'93He\'92s a good bull,\'94 Manuel said. \'93If they gave me another shot at him, I\'92d kill him,\'94 Zurito said. \'93They\'92ll change the thirds on us,\'94 Manuel said. \'93Look at him now,\'94 Zurito said. \'93I got to go over there,\'94 Manuel said, and started on a run for the other side of the ring, where the monos were leading a horse out by the bridle toward the bull, whacking him on the legs with rods and all, in a procession, trying to get him toward the bull, who stood, dropping his head, pawing, unable to make up his mind to charge. Zurito, sitting his horse, walking him toward the scene, not missing any detail, scowled. Finally the bull charged, the horse leaders ran for the barrera, the picador hit too far back, and the bull got under the horse, lifted him, threw him onto his back. Zurito watched. The monos, in their red shirts, running out to drag the picador clear. The picador, now on his feet, swearing and flopping his arms. Manuel and Hernandez standing ready with their capes. And the bull, the great, black bull, with a horse on his back, hooves dangling, the bridle caught in the horns. Black bull with a horse on his back, staggering short-legged, then arching his neck and lifting, thrusting, charging to slide the horse off, horse sliding down. Then the bull into a lunging charge at the cape Manuel spread for him. The bull was slower now, Manuel felt. He was bleeding badly. There was a sheen of blood all down his flank. Manuel offered him the cape again. There he came, eyes open, ugly, watching the cape. Manuel stepped to the side and raised his arms, tightening the cape ahead of the bull for the ver\'f3nica. Now he was facing the bull. Yes, his head was going down a little. He was carrying it lower. That was Zurito. Manuel flopped the cape; there he comes; he side-stepped and swung in another ver\'f3nica. He\'92s shooting awfully accurately, he thought. He\'92s had enough fight, so he\'92s watching now. He\'92s hunting now. Got his eye on me. But I always give him the cape. He shook the cape at the bull; there he comes; he side-stepped. Awful close that time. I don\'92t want to work that close to him. The edge of the cape was wet with blood where it had swept along the bull\'92s back as he went by. All right, here\'92s the last one. Manuel, facing the bull, having turned with him each charge, offered the cape with his two hands. The bull looked at him. Eyes watching, horns straight forward, the bull looked at him, watching. \'93Huh!\'94 Manuel said, \'93Toro!\'94 and leaning back, swung the cape forward. Here he comes. He side-stepped, swung the cape in back of him, and pivoted, so the bull followed a swirl of cape and then was left with nothing, fixed by the pass, dominated by the cape. Manuel swung the cape under his muzzle with one hand, to show the bull was fixed, and walked away. There was no applause. Manuel walked across the sand toward the barrera, while Zurito rode out of the ring. The trumpet had blown to change the act to the planting of the banderillas while Manuel had been working with the bull. He had not consciously noticed it. The monos were spreading canvas over the two dead horses and sprinkling sawdust around them. Manuel came up to the barrera for a drink of water. Retana\'92s man handed him the heavy porous jug. Fuentes, the tall gypsy, was standing holding a pair of banderillas, holding them together, slim, red sticks, fish-hook points out. He looked at Manuel. \'93Go on out there,\'94 Manuel said. The gypsy trotted out. Manuel set down the jug and watched. He wiped his face with his handkerchief. The critic of El Heraldo reached for the bottle of warm champagne that stood between his feet, took a drink, and finished his paragraph. \'93\'97the aged Manolo rated no applause for a vulgar series of lances with the cape and we entered the third of the palings.\'94 Alone in the center of the ring the bull stood, still fixed. Fuentes, tall, flat-backed, walking toward him arrogantly, his arms spread out, the two slim, red sticks, one in each hand, held by the fingers, points straight forward. Fuentes walked forward. Back of him and to one side was a peon with a cape. The bull looked at him and was no longer fixed. His eyes watched Fuentes, now standing still. Now he leaned back, calling to him. Fuentes twitched the two banderillas and the light on the steel points caught the bull\'92s eye. His tail went up and he charged. He came straight, his eyes on the man. Fuentes stood still, leaning back, the banderillas pointing forward. As the bull lowered his head to hook, Fuentes leaned backward, his arms came together and rose, his two hands touching, the banderillas two descending red lines, and leaning forward drove the points into the bull\'92s shoulder, leaning far in over the bull\'92s horns and pivoting on the two upright sticks, his legs tight together, his body curving to one side to let the bull pass. \'93Ol\'e9!\'94 from the crowd. The bull was hooking wildly, jumping like a trout, all four feet off the ground. The red shaft of the banderillas tossed as he jumped. Manuel, standing at the barrera, noticed that he looked always to the right. \'93Tell him to drop the next pair on the right,\'94 he said to the kid who started to run out to Fuentes with the new banderillas. A heavy hand fell on his shoulder. It was Zurito. \'93How do you feel, kid?\'94 he asked. Manuel was watching the bull. Zurito leaned forward on the barrera, leaning the weight of his body on his arms. Manuel turned to him. \'93You\'92re going good,\'94 Zurito said. Manuel shook his head. He had nothing to do now until the next third. The gypsy was very good with the banderillas. The bull would come to him in the next third in good shape. He was a good bull. It had all been easy up to now. The final stuff with the sword was all he worried over. He did not really worry. He did not even think about it. But standing there he had a heavy sense of apprehension. He looked out at the bull, planning his faena, his work with the red cloth that was to reduce the bull, to make him manageable. The gypsy was walking out toward the bull again, walking heel-and-toe, insultingly, like a ballroom dancer, the red shafts of the banderillas twitching with his walk. The bull watched him, not fixed now, hunting him, but waiting to get close enough so he could be sure of getting him, getting the horns into him. As Fuentes walked forward the bull charged. Fuentes ran across the quarter of a circle as the bull charged and, as he passed running backward, stopped, swung forward, rose on his toes, arms straight out, and sunk the banderillas straight down into the tight of the big shoulder muscles as the bull missed him. The crowd were wild about it. \'93That kid won\'92t stay in this night stuff long,\'94 Retana\'92s man said to Zurito. \'93He\'92s good,\'94 Zurito said. \'93Watch him now.\'94 They watched. Fuentes was standing with his back against the barrera. Two of the cuadrilla were back of him, with their capes ready to flop over the fence to distract the bull. The bull, with his tongue out, his barrel heaving, was watching the gypsy. He thought he had him now. Back against the red planks. Only a short charge away. The bull watched him. The gypsy bent back, drew back his arms, the banderillas pointing at the bull. He called to the bull, stamped one foot. The bull was suspicious. He wanted the man. No more barbs in the shoulder. Fuentes walked a little closer to the bull. Bent back. Called again. Somebody in the crowd shouted a warning. \'93He\'92s too damn close,\'94 Zurito said. \'93Watch him,\'94 Retana\'92s man said. Leaning back, inciting the bull with the banderillas, Fuentes jumped, both feet off the ground. As he jumped the bull\'92s tail rose and he charged. Fuentes came down on his toes, arms straight out, whole body arching forward, and drove the shafts straight down as he swung his body clear of the right horn. The bull crashed into the barrera where the flopping capes had attracted his eye as he lost the man. The gypsy came running along the barrera toward Manuel, taking the applause of the crowd. His vest was ripped where he had not quite cleared the point of the horn. He was happy about it, showing it to the spectators. He made the tour of the ring. Zurito saw him go by, smiling, pointing at his vest. He smiled. Somebody else was planting the last pair of banderillas. Nobody was paying any attention. Retana\'92s man tucked a baton inside the red cloth of a muleta, folded the cloth over it, and handed it over the barrera to Manuel. He reached in the leather sword-case, took out a sword, and holding it by its leather scabbard, reached it over the fence to Manuel. Manuel pulled the blade out by the red hilt and the scabbard fell limp. He looked at Zurito. The big man saw he was sweating. \'93Now you get him, kid,\'94 Zurito said. Manuel nodded. \'93He\'92s in good shape,\'94 Zurito said. \'93Just like you want him,\'94 Retana\'92s man assured him. Manuel nodded. The trumpeter, up under the roof, blew for the final act, and Manuel walked across the arena toward where, up in the dark boxes, the president must be. In the front row of seats the substitute bull-fight critic of El Heraldo took a long drink of the warm champagne. He had decided it was not worth while to write a running story and would write up the corrida back in the office. What the hell was it anyway? Only a nocturnal. If he missed anything he would get it out of the morning papers. He took another drink of the champagne. He had a date at Maxim\'92s at twelve. Who were these bull-fighters anyway? Kids and bums. A bunch of bums. He put his pad of paper in his pocket and looked over toward Manuel, standing very much alone in the ring, gesturing with his hat in a salute toward a box he could not see high up in the dark plaza. Out in the ring the bull stood quiet, looking at nothing. \'93I dedicate this bull to you, Mr. President, and to the public of Madrid, the most intelligent and generous of the world,\'94 was what Manuel was saying. It was a formula. He said it all. It was a little long for nocturnal use. He bowed at the dark, straightened, tossed his hat over his shoulder, and, carrying the muleta in his left hand and the sword in his right, walked out toward the bull. Manuel walked toward the bull. The bull looked at him; his eyes were quick. Manuel noticed the way the banderillas hung down on his left shoulder and the steady sheen of blood from Zurito\'92s picing. He noticed the way the bull\'92s feet were. As he walked forward, holding the muleta in his left hand and the sword in his right, he watched the bull\'92s feet. The bull could not charge without gathering his feet together. Now he stood square on them, dully. Manuel walked toward him, watching his feet. This was all right. He could do this. He must work to get the bull\'92s head down, so he could go in past the horns and kill him. He did not think about the sword, not about killing the bull. He thought about one thing at a time. The coming things oppressed him, though. Walking forward, watching the bull\'92s feet, he saw successively his eyes, his wet muzzle, and the wide, forward-pointing spread of his horns. The bull had light circles about his eyes. His eyes watched Manuel. He felt he was going to get this little one with the white face. Standing still now and spreading the red cloth of the muleta with the sword, pricking the point into the cloth so that the sword, now held in his left hand, spread the red flannel like the jib of a boat, Manuel noticed the points of the bull\'92s horns. One of them was splintered from banging against the barrera. The other was sharp as a porcupine quill. Manuel noticed while spreading the muleta that the white base of the horn was stained red. While he noticed these things he did not lose sight of the bull\'92s feet. The bull watched Manuel steadily. He\'92s on the defensive now, Manuel thought. He\'92s reserving himself. I\'92ve got to bring him out of that and get his head down. Always get his head down. Zurito had his head down once, but he\'92s come back. He\'92ll bleed when I start him going and that will bring it down. Holding the muleta, with the sword in his left hand widening it in front of him, he called to the bull. The bull looked at him. He leaned back insultingly and shook the wide-spread flannel. The bull saw the muleta. It was a bright scarlet under the arc-light. The bull\'92s legs tightened. Here he comes. Whoosh! Manuel turned as the bull came and raised the muleta so that it passed over the bull\'92s horns and swept down his broad back from head to tail. The bull had gone clean up in the air with the charge. Manuel had not moved. At the end of the pass the bull turned like a cat coming around a corner and faced Manuel. He was on the offensive again. His heaviness was gone. Manuel noted the fresh blood shining down the black shoulder and dripping down the bull\'92s leg. He drew the sword out of the muleta and held it in his right hand. The muleta held low down in his left hand, leaning toward the left, he called to the bull. The bull\'92s legs tightened, his eyes on the muleta. Here he comes, Manuel thought. Yuh! He swung with the charge, sweeping the muleta ahead of the bull, his feet firm, the sword following the curve, a point of light under the arcs. The bull recharged as the pase natural finished and Manuel raised the muleta for a pase de pecho. Firmly planted, the bull came by his chest under the raised muleta. Manuel leaned his head back to avoid the clattering banderillo shafts. The hot, black bull body touched his chest as it passed. Too damn close, Manuel thought. Zurito, leaning on the barrera, spoke rapidly to the gypsy, who trotted out toward Manuel with a cape. Zurito pulled his hat down low and looked out across the arena at Manuel. Manuel was facing the bull again, the muleta held low and to the left. The bull\'92s head was down as he watched the muleta. \'93If it was Belmonte doing that stuff, they\'92d go crazy,\'94 Retana\'92s man said. Zurito said nothing. He was watching Manuel out in the center of the arena. \'93Where did the boss dig this fellow up?\'94 Retana\'92s man asked. \'93Out of the hospital,\'94 Zurito said. \'93That\'92s where he\'92s going damn quick,\'94 Retana\'92s man said. Zurito turned on him. \'93Knock on that,\'94 he said, pointing to the barrera. \'93I was just kidding, man,\'94 Retana\'92s man said. \'93Knock on the wood.\'94 Retana\'92s man leaned forward and knocked three times on the barrera. \'93Watch the faena,\'94 Zurito said. Out in the center of the ring, under the lights, Manuel was kneeling, facing the bull, and as he raised the muleta in both hands the bull charged, tail up. Manuel swung his body clear and, as the bull recharged, brought around the muleta in a halfcircle that pulled the bull to his knees. \'93Why, that one\'92s a great bull-fighter,\'94 Retana\'92s man said. \'93No, he\'92s not,\'94 said Zurito. Manuel stood up and, the muleta in his left hand, the sword in his right, acknowledged the applause from the dark plaza. The bull had humped himself up from his knees and stood waiting, his head hung low. Zurito spoke to two of the other lads of the cuadrilla and they ran out to stand back of Manuel with their capes. There were four men back of him now. Hernandez had followed him since he first came out with the muleta. Fuentes stood watching, his cape held against his body, tall, in repose, watching lazy-eyed. Now the two came up. Hernandez motioned them to stand one at each side. Manuel stood alone, facing the bull. Manuel waved back the men with the capes. Stepping back cautiously, they saw his face was white and sweating. Didn\'92t they know enough to keep back? Did they want to catch the bull\'92s eye with the capes after he was fixed and ready? He had enough to worry about without that kind of thing. The bull was standing, his four feet square, looking at the muleta. Manuel furled the muleta in his left hand. The bull\'92s eyes watched it. His body was heavy on his feel. He carried his head low, but not too low. Manuel lifted the muleta at him. The bull did not move. Only his eyes watched. He\'92s all lead. Manuel thought. He\'92s all square. He\'92s framed right. He\'92ll take it. He thought in bull-fight terms. Sometimes he had a thought and the particular piece of slang would not come into his mind and he could not realize the thought. His instincts and his knowledge worked automatically, and his brain worked slowly and in words. He knew all about bulls. He did not have to think about them. He just did the right thing. His eyes noted things and his body performed the necessary measures without thought. If he thought about it, he would be gone. Now, facing the bull, he was conscious of many things at the same time. There were the horns, the one splintered, the other smoothly sharp, the need to profile himself toward the left horn, lance himself short and straight, lower the muleta so the bull would follow it, and, going in over the horns, put the sword all the way into a little spot about as big as a five-peseta piece straight in back of the neck, between the sharp pitch of the bull\'92s shoulders. He must do all this and must then come out from between the horns. He was conscious he must do all this, but his only thought was in words: \'93Corto y derecho.\'94 \'93Corto y derecho,\'94 he thought, furling the muleta. Short and straight. Corto y derecho, he drew the sword out of the muleta, profiled on the splintered left horn, dropped the muleta across his body, so his right hand with the sword on the level with his eye made the sign of the cross, and, rising on his toes, sighted along the dipping blade of the sword at the spot high up between the bull\'92s shoulders. Corto y derecho he launched himself on the bull. There was a shock, and he felt himself go up in the air. He pushed on the sword as he went up and over, and it flew out of his hand. He hit the ground and the bull was on him. Manuel, lying on the ground, kicked at the bull\'92s muzzle with his slippered feet. Kicking, kicking, the bull after him, missing him in his excitement, bumping him with his head, driving the horns into the sand. Kicking like a man keeping a ball in the air, Manuel kept the bull from getting a clean thrust at him. Manuel felt the wind on his back from the capes flopping at the bull, and then the bull was gone, gone over him in a rush. Dark, as his belly went over. Not even stepped on. Manuel stood up and picked up the muleta. Fuentes handed him the sword. It was bent where it had struck the shoulder-blade. Manuel straightened it on his knee and ran toward the bull, standing now beside one of the dead horses. As he ran, his jacket flopped where it had been ripped under his armpit. \'93Get him out of there,\'94 Manuel shouted to the gypsy. The bull had smelled the blood of the dead horse and ripped into the canvas-cover with his horns. He charged Fuentes\'92s cape, with the canvas hanging from his splintered horn, and the crowd laughed. Out in the ring, he tossed his head to rid himself of the canvas. Hernandez, running up from behind him, grabbed the end of the canvas and neatly lifted it off the horn. The bull followed it in a half-charge and stopped still. He was on the defensive again. Manuel was walking toward him with the sword and muleta. Manuel swung the muleta before him. The bull would not charge. Manuel profiled toward the bull, sighting along the dipping blade of the sword. The bull was motionless, seemingly dead on his feet, incapable of another charge. Manuel rose to his toes, sighting along the steel, and charged. Again there was the shock and he felt himself being borne back in a rush, to strike hard on the sand. There was no chance of kicking this time. The bull was on top of him. Manuel lay as though dead, his head on his arms, and the bull bumped him. Bumped his back, bumped his face in the sand. He felt the horn go into the sand between his folded arms. The bull hit him in the small of the back. His face drove into the sand. The horn drove through one of his sleeves and the bull ripped it off. Manuel was tossed clear and the bull followed the capes. Manuel got up, found the sword and muleta, tried the point of the sword with his thumb, and then ran toward the barrera for a new sword. Retana\'92s man handed him the sword over the edge of the barrera. \'93Wipe off your face,\'94 he said. Manuel, running again toward the bull, wiped his bloody face with his handkerchief. He had not seen Zurito. Where was Zurito? The cuadrilla had stepped away from the bull and waited with their capes. The bull stood, heavy and dull again after the action. Manuel walked toward him with the muleta. He stopped and shook it. The bull did not respond. He passed it right and left, left and right before the bull\'92s muzzle. The bull\'92s eyes watched it and turned with the swing, but he would not charge. He was waiting for Manuel. Manuel was worried. There was nothing to do but go in. Corto y derecho. He profiled close to the bull, crossed the muleta in front of his body and charged. As he pushed in the sword, he jerked his body to the left to clear the horn. The bull passed him and the sword shot up in the air, twinkling under the arc-lights, to fall red-hilted on the sand. Manuel ran over and picked it up. It was bent and he straightened it over his knee. As he came running toward the bull, fixed again now, he passed Hernandez standing with his cape. \'93He\'92s all bone,\'94 the boy said encouragingly. Manuel nodded, wiping his face. He put the bloody handkerchief in his pocket. There was the bull. He was close to the barrera now. Damn him. Maybe he was all bone. Maybe there was not any place for the sword to go in. The hell there wasn\'92t! He\'92d show them. He tried a pass with the muleta and the bull did not move. Manuel chopped the muleta back and forth in front of the bull. Nothing doing. He furled the muleta, drew the sword out, profiled and drove in on the bull. He felt the sword buckle as he shoved it in, leaning his weight on it, and then it shot high in the air, end-over-ending into the crowd. Manuel had jerked clear as the sword jumped. The first cushions thrown down out of the dark missed him. Then one hit him in the face, his bloody face looking toward the crowd. They were coming down fast. Spotting the sand. Somebody threw an empty champagne-bottle from close range. It hit Manuel on the foot. He stood there watching the dark, where the things were coming from. Then something whished through the air and struck by him. Manuel leaned over and picked it up. It was his sword. He straightened it over his knee and gestured with it to the crowd. \'93Thank you,\'94 he said. \'93Thank you.\'94 Oh, the dirty bastards! Dirty bastards! Oh, the lousy, dirty bastards! He kicked into a cushion as he ran. There was the bull. The same as ever. All right, you dirty, lousy bastard! Manuel passed the muleta in front of the bull\'92s black muzzle. Nothing doing. You won\'92t! All right. He stepped close and jammed the sharp peak of the muleta into the bull\'92s damp muzzle. The bull was on him as he jumped back and as he tripped on a cushion he felt the horn go into him, into his side. He grabbed the horn with his two hands and rode backward, holding tight onto the place. The bull tossed him and he was clear. He lay still. It was all right. The bull was gone. He got up coughing and feeling broken and gone. The dirty bastards! \'93Give me the sword,\'94 he shouted. \'93Give me the stuff.\'94 Fuentes came up with the muleta and the sword. Hernandez put his arm around him. \'93Go on to the infirmary, man,\'94 he said. \'93Don\'92t be a damn fool.\'94 \'93Get away from me,\'94 Manuel said. \'93Get to hell away from me.\'94 He twisted free. Hernandez shrugged his shoulders. Manuel ran toward the bull. There was the bull standing, heavy, firmly planted. All right, you bastard! Manuel drew the sword out of the muleta, sighted with the same movement, and flung himself onto the bull. He felt the sword go in all the way. Right up to the guard. Four fingers and his thumb into the bull. The blood was hot on his knuckles, and he was on top of the bull. The bull lurched with him as he lay on, and seemed to sink; then he was standing clear. He looked at the bull going down slowly over on his side, then suddenly four feet in the air. Then he gestured at the crowd, his hand warm from the bull blood. All right, you bastards! He wanted to say something, but he started to cough. It was hot and choking. He looked down for the muleta. He must go over and salute the president. President hell! He was sitting down looking at something. It was the bull. His four feet up. Thick tongue out. Things crawling around on his belly and under his legs. Crawling where the hair was thin. Dead bull. To hell with the bull! To hell with them all! He started to get to his feet and commenced to cough. He sat down again, coughing. Somebody came and pushed him up. They carried him across the ring to the infirmary, running with him across the sand, standing blocked at the gate as the mules came in, then around under the dark passageway, men grunting as they took him up the stairway, and then laid him down. The doctor and two men in white were waiting for him. They laid him out on the table. They were cutting away his shirt. Manuel felt tired. His whole chest felt scalding inside. He started to cough and they held something to his mouth. Everybody was very busy. There was an electric light in his eyes. He shut his eyes. He heard someone coming very heavily up the stairs. Then he did not hear it. Then he heard a noise far off. That was the crowd. Well, somebody would have to kill his other bull. They had cut away all his shirt. The doctor smiled at him. There was Retana. \'93Hello, Retana!\'94 Manuel said. He could not hear his voice. Retana smiled at him and said something. Manuel could not hear it. Zurito stood beside the table, bending over where the doctor was working. He was in his picador clothes, without his hat. Zurito said something to him. Manuel could not hear it. Zurito was speaking to Retana. One of the men in white smiled and handed Retana a pair of scissors. Retana gave them to Zurito. Zurito said something to Manuel. He could not hear it. To hell with this operating-table. He\'92d been on plenty of operating-tables before. He was not going to die. There would be a priest if he was going to die. Zurito was saying something to him. Holding up the scissors. That was it. They were going to cut off his coleta. They were going to cut off his pigtail. Manuel sat up on the operating-table. The doctor stepped back, angry. Someone grabbed him and held him. \'93You couldn\'92t do a thing like that, Manos,\'94 he said. He heard suddenly, clearly, Zurito\'92s voice. \'93That\'92s all right,\'94 Zurito said. \'93I won\'92t do it. I was joking.\'94 \'93I was going good,\'94 Manuel said. \'93I didn\'92t have any luck. That was all.\'94 Manuel lay back. They had put something over his face. It was all familiar. He inhaled deeply. He felt very tired. He was very, very tired. They took the thing away from his face. \'93I was going good,\'94 Manuel said weakly. \'93I was going great.\'94 Retana looked at Zurito and started for the door. \'93I\'92ll stay here with him,\'94 Zurito said. Retana shrugged his shoulders. Manuel opened his eyes and looked at Zurito. \'93Wasn\'92t I going good, Manos?\'94 he asked, for confirmation. \'93Sure,\'94 said Zurito. \'93You were going great.\'94 The doctor\'92s assistant put the cone over Manuel\'92s face and he inhaled deeply. Zurito stood awkwardly, watching. In Another Country IN THE FALL THE WAR WAS ALWAYS there, but we did not go to it any more. It was cold in the fall in Milan and the dark came very early. Then the electric lights came on, and it was pleasant along the streets looking in the windows. There was much game hanging outside the shops, and the snow powdered in the fur of the foxes and the wind blew their tails. The deer hung stiff and heavy and empty, and small birds blew in the wind and the wind turned their feathers. It was a cold fall and the wind came down from the mountains. We were all at the hospital every afternoon, and there were different ways of walking across the town through the dusk to the hospital. Two of the ways were alongside canals, but they were long. Always, though, you crossed a bridge across a canal to enter the hospital. There was a choice of three bridges. On one of them a woman sold roasted chestnuts. It was warm, standing in front of her charcoal fire, and the chestnuts were warm afterward in your pocket. The hospital was very old and very beautiful, and you entered through a gate and walked across a courtyard and out a gate on the other side. There were usually funerals starting from the courtyard. Beyond the old hospital were the new brick pavilions, and there we met every afternoon and were all very polite and interested in what was the matter, and sat in the machines that were to make so much difference. The doctor came up to the machine where I was sitting and said: \'93What did you like best to do before the war? Did you practice a sport?\'94 I said: \'93Yes, football.\'94 \'93Good\'94 he said. \'93You will be able to play football again better than ever.\'94 My knee did not bend and the leg dropped straight from the knee to the ankle without a calf, and the machine was to bend the knee and make it move as in riding a tricycle. But it did not bend yet, and instead the machine lurched when it came to the bending part. The doctor said: \'93That will all pass. You are a fortunate young man. You will play football again like a champion.\'94 In the next machine was a major who had a little hand like a baby\'92s. He winked at me when the doctor examined his hand, which was between two leather straps that bounced up and down and flapped the stiff fingers, and said: \'93And will I too play football, captain-doctor?\'94 He had been a very great fencer, and before the war the greatest fencer in Italy. The doctor went to his office in a back room and brought a photograph which showed a hand that had been withered almost as small as the major\'92s, before it had taken a machine course, and after was a little larger. The major held the photograph with his good hand and looked at it very carefully. \'93A wound?\'94 he asked. \'93An industrial accident,\'94 the doctor said. \'93Very interesting, very interesting,\'94 the major said, and handed it back to the doctor. \'93You have confidence?\'94 \'93No,\'94 said the major. There were three boys who came each day who were about the same age I was. They were all three from Milan, and one of them was to be a lawyer, and one was to be a painter, and one had intended to be a soldier, and after we were finished with the machines, sometimes we walked back together to the Caf\'e9 Cova, which was next door to the Scala. We walked the short way through the communist quarter because we were four together. The people hated us because we were officers, and from a wine-shop some one would call out, \'93A basso gli uf iciali!\'94 as we passed. Another boy who walked with us sometimes and made us five wore a black silk handkerchief across his face because he had no nose then and his face was to be rebuilt. He had gone out to the front from the military academy and been wounded within an hour after he had gone into the front line for the first time. They rebuilt his face, but he came from a very old family and they could never get the nose exactly right. He went to South America and worked in a bank. But this was a long time ago, and then we did not any of us know how it was going to be afterward. We only knew then that there was always the war, but that we were not going to it any more. We all had the same medals, except the boy with the black silk bandage across his face, and he had not been at the front long enough to get any medals. The tall boy with a very pale face who was to be a lawyer had been a lieutenant of Arditi and had three medals of the sort we each had only one of. He had lived a very long time with death and was a little detached. We were all a little detached, and there was nothing that held us together except that we met every afternoon at the hospital. Although, as we walked to the Cova through the tough part of town, walking in the dark, with light and singing coming out of the wine-shops, and sometimes having to walk into the street when the men and women would crowd together on the sidewalk so that we would have had to jostle them to get by, we felt held together by there being something that had happened that they, the people who disliked us, did not understand. We ourselves all understood the Cova, where it was rich and warm and not too brightly lighted, and noisy and smoky at certain hours, and there were always girls at the tables and the illustrated papers on a rack on the wall. The girls at the Cova were very patriotic, and I found that the most patriotic people in Italy were the caf\'e9 girls\'97and I believe they are still patriotic. The boys at first were very polite about my medals and asked me what I had done to get them. I showed them the papers, which were written in very beautiful language and full of fratellanza and abnegazione, but which really said, with the adjectives removed, that I had been given the medals because I was an American. After that their manner changed a little toward me, although I was their friend against outsiders. I was a friend, but I was never really one of them after they had read the citations, because it had been different with them and they had done very different things to get their medals. I had been wounded, it was true; but we all knew that being wounded, after all, was really an accident. I was never ashamed of the ribbons, though, and sometimes, after the cocktail hour, I would imagine myself having done all the things they had done to get their medals; but walking home at night through the empty streets with the cold wind and all the shops closed, trying to keep near the street lights, I knew that I would never have done such things, and I was very much afraid to die, and often lay in bed at night by myself, afraid to die and wondering how I would be when I went back to the front again. The three with the medals were like hunting-hawks; and I was not a hawk, although I might seem a hawk to those who had never hunted; they, the three, knew better and so we drifted apart. But I stayed good friends with the boy who had been wounded his first day at the front, because he would never know now how he would have turned out; so he could never be accepted either, and I liked him because I thought perhaps he would not have turned out to be a hawk either. The major, who had been the great fencer, did not believe in bravery, and spent much time while we sat in the machines correcting my grammar. He had complimented me on how I spoke Italian, and we talked together very easily. One day I had said that Italian seemed such an easy language to me that I could not take a great interest in it; everything was so easy to say. \'93Ah, yes,\'94 the major said. \'93Why, then, do you not take up the use of grammar?\'94 So we took up the use of grammar, and soon Italian was such a difficult language that I was afraid to talk to him until I had the grammar straight in my mind. The major came very regularly to the hospital. I do not think he ever missed a day, although I am sure he did not believe in the machines. There was a time when none of us believed in the machines, and one day the major said it was all nonsense. The machines were new then and it was we who were to prove them. It was an idiotic idea, he said, \'93a theory, like another.\'94 I had not learned my grammar, and he said I was a stupid impossible disgrace, and he was a fool to have bothered with me. He was a small man and he sat straight up in his chair with his right hand thrust into the machine and looked straight ahead at the wall while the straps thumped up and down with his fingers in them. \'93What will you do when the war is over if it is over?\'94 he asked me. \'93Speak grammatically!\'94 \'93I will go to the States.\'94 \'93Are you married?\'94 \'93No, but I hope to be.\'94 \'93The more of a fool you are,\'94 he said. He seemed very angry. \'93A man must not marry.\'94 \'93Why, Signor Maggiore?\'94 \'93Don\'92t call me \'91Signor Maggiore.\'92\'94 \'93Why must not a man marry?\'94 \'93He cannot marry. He cannot marry,\'94 he said angrily. \'93If he is to lose everything, he should not place himself in a position to lose that. He should not place himself in a position to lose. He should find things he cannot lose.\'94 He spoke very angrily and bitterly, and looked straight ahead while he talked. \'93But why should he necessarily lose it?\'94 \'93He\'92ll lose it,\'94 the major said. He was looking at the wall. Then he looked down at the machine and jerked his little hand out from between the straps and slapped it hard against his thigh. \'93He\'92ll lose it,\'94 he almost shouted. \'93Don\'92t argue with me!\'94 Then he called to the attendant who ran the machines. \'93Come and turn this damned thing off.\'94 He went back into the other room for the light treatment and the massage. Then I heard him ask the doctor if he might use his telephone and he shut the door. When he came back into the room, I was sitting in another machine. He was wearing his cape and had his cap on, and he came directly toward my machine and put his arm on my shoulder. \'93I am so sorry,\'94 he said, and patted me on the shoulder with his good hand. \'93I would not be rude. My wife has just died. You must forgive me.\'94 \'93Oh\'97\'94 I said, feeling sick for him. \'93I am so sorry.\'94 He stood there biting his lower lip. \'93It is very difficult,\'94 he said. \'93I cannot resign myself.\'94 He looked straight past me and out through the window. Then he began to cry. \'93I am utterly unable to resign myself,\'94 he said and choked. And then crying, his head up looking at nothing, carrying himself straight and soldierly, with tears on both his cheeks and biting his lips, he walked past the machines and out the door. The doctor told me that the major\'92s wife, who was very young and whom he had not married until he was definitely invalided out of the war, had died of pneumonia. She had been sick only a few days. No one expected her to die. The major did not come to the hospital for three days. Then he came at the usual hour, wearing a black band on the sleeve of his uniform. When he came back, there were large framed photographs around the wall, of all sorts of wounds before and after they had been cured by the machines. In front of the machine the major used were three photographs of hands like his that were completely restored. I do not know where the doctor got them. I always understood we were the first to use the machines. The photographs did not make much difference to the major because he only looked out of the window. Hills Like White Elephants THE HILLS ACROSS THE VALLEY OF THE Ebro were long and white. On this side there was no shade and no trees and the station was between two lines of rails in the sun. Close against the side of the station there was the warm shadow of the building and a curtain, made of strings of bamboo beads, hung across the open door into the bar, to keep out flies. The American and the girl with him sat at a table in the shade, outside the building. It was very hot and the express from Barcelona would come in forty minutes. It stopped at this junction for two minutes and went on to Madrid. \'93What should we drink?\'94 the girl asked. She had taken off her hat and put it on the table. \'93It\'92s pretty hot,\'94 the man said. \'93Let\'92s drink beer.\'94 \'93Dos cervezas,\'94 the man said into the curtain. \'93Big ones?\'94 a woman asked from the doorway. \'93Yes. Two big ones.\'94 The woman brought two glasses of beer and two felt pads. She put the felt pads and the beer glasses on the table and looked at the man and the girl. The girl was looking off at the line of hills. They were white in the sun and the country was brown and dry. \'93They look like white elephants,\'94 she said. \'93I\'92ve never seen one,\'94 the man drank his beer. \'93No, you wouldn\'92t have.\'94 \'93I might have,\'94 the man said. \'93Just because you say I wouldn\'92t have doesn\'92t prove anything.\'94 The girl looked at the bead curtain. \'93They\'92ve painted something on it,\'94 she said. \'93What does it say?\'94 \'93Anis del Toro. It\'92s a drink.\'94 \'93Could we try it?\'94 The man called \'93Listen\'94 through the curtain. The woman came out from the bar. \'93Four reales.\'94 \'93We want two Anis del Toro.\'94 \'93With water?\'94 \'93Do you want it with water?\'94 \'93I don\'92t know,\'94 the girl said. \'93Is it good with water?\'94 \'93It\'92s all right.\'94 \'93You want them with water?\'94 asked the woman. \'93Yes, with water.\'94 \'93It tastes like licorice,\'94 the girl said and put the glass down. \'93That\'92s the way with everything.\'94 \'93Yes,\'94 said the girl. \'93Everything tastes of licorice. Especially all the things you\'92ve waited so long for, like absinthe.\'94 \'93Oh, cut it out.\'94 \'93You started it,\'94 the girl said. \'93I was being amused. I was having a fine time.\'94 \'93Well, let\'92s try and have a fine time.\'94 \'93All right. I was trying. I said the mountains looked like white elephants. Wasn\'92t that bright?\'94 \'93That was bright.\'94 \'93I wanted to try this new drink: That\'92s all we do, isn\'92t it\'97look at things and try new drinks?\'94 \'93I guess so.\'94 The girl looked across at the hills. \'93They\'92re lovely hills,\'94 she said. \'93They don\'92t really look like white elephants. I just meant the coloring of their skin through the trees.\'94 \'93Should we have another drink?\'94 \'93All right.\'94 The warm wind blew the bead curtain against the table. \'93The beer\'92s nice and cool,\'94 the man said. \'93It\'92s lovely,\'94 the girl said. \'93It\'92s really an awfully simple operation, Jig,\'94 the man said. \'93It\'92s not really an operation at all.\'94 The girl looked at the ground the table legs rested on. \'93I know you wouldn\'92t mind it. Jig. It\'92s really not anything. It\'92s just to let the air in.\'94 The girl did not say anything. \'93I\'92ll go with you and I\'92ll stay with you all the time. They just let the air in and then it\'92s all perfectly natural.\'94 \'93Then what will we do afterward?\'94 \'93We\'92ll be fine afterward. Just like we were before.\'94 \'93What makes you think so?\'94 \'93That\'92s the only thing that bothers us. It\'92s the only thing that\'92s made us unhappy.\'94 The girl looked at the bead curtain, put her hand out and took hold of two of the strings of beads. \'93And you think then we\'92ll be all right and be happy.\'94 \'93I know we will. You don\'92t have to be afraid. I\'92ve known lots of people that have done it.\'94 \'93So have I,\'94 said the girl. \'93And afterward they were all so happy.\'94 \'93Well,\'94 the man said, \'93if you don\'92t want to you don\'92t have to. I wouldn\'92t have you do it if you didn\'92t want to. But I know it\'92s perfectly simple.\'94 \'93And you really want to?\'94 \'93I think it\'92s the best thing to do. But I don\'92t want you to do it if you don\'92t really want to.\'94 \'93And if I do it you\'92ll be happy and things will be like they were and you\'92ll love me?\'94 \'93I love you now. You know I love you.\'94 \'93I know. But if I do it, then it will be nice again if I say things are like white elephants, and you\'92ll like it?\'94 \'93I\'92ll love it. I love it now but I just can\'92t think about it. You know how I get when I worry.\'94 \'93If I do it you won\'92t ever worry?\'94 \'93I won\'92t worry about that because it\'92s perfectly simple.\'94 \'93Then I\'92ll do it. Because I don\'92t care about me.\'94 \'93What do you mean?\'94 \'93I don\'92t care about me.\'94 \'93Well, I care about you.\'94 \'93Oh, yes. But I don\'92t care about me. And I\'92ll do it and then everything will be fine.\'94 \'93I don\'92t want you to do it if you feel that way.\'94 The girl stood up and walked to the end of the station. Across, on the other side, were fields of grain and trees along the banks of the Ebro. Far away, beyond the river, were mountains. The shadow of a cloud moved across the field of grain and she saw the river through the trees. \'93And we could have all this,\'94 she said. \'93And we could have everything and every day we make it more impossible.\'94 \'93What did you say?\'94 \'93I said we could have everything.\'94 \'93We can have everything.\'94 \'93No, we can\'92t.\'94 \'93We can have the whole world.\'94 \'93No, we can\'92t.\'94 \'93We can go everywhere.\'94 \'93No, we can\'92t. It isn\'92t ours any more.\'94 \'93It\'92s ours.\'94 \'93No, it isn\'92t. And once they take it away, you never get it back.\'94 \'93But they haven\'92t taken it away.\'94 \'93We\'92ll wait and see.\'94 \'93Come on back in the shade,\'94 he said. \'93You mustn\'92t feel that way.\'94 \'93I don\'92t feel any way,\'94 the girl said. \'93I just know things.\'94 \'93I don\'92t want you to do anything that you don\'92t want to do\'97\'94 \'93Nor that isn\'92t good for me,\'94 she said. \'93I know. Could we have another beer?\'94 \'93All right. But you\'92ve got to realize\'97\'94 \'93I realize,\'94 the girl said. \'93Can\'92t we maybe stop talking?\'94 They sat down at the table and the girl looked across at the hills on the dry side of the valley and the man looked at her and at the table. \'93You\'92ve got to realize,\'94 he said, \'93that I don\'92t want you to do it if you don\'92t want to. I\'92m perfectly willing to go through with it if it means anything to you.\'94 \'93Doesn\'92t it mean anything to you? We could get along.\'94 \'93Of course it does. But I don\'92t want anybody but you. I don\'92t want any one else. And I know it\'92s perfectly simple.\'94 \'93Yes, you know it\'92s perfectly simple.\'94 \'93It\'92s all right for you to say that, but I do know it.\'94 \'93Would you do something for me now?\'94 \'93I\'92d do anything for you.\'94 \'93Would you please please please please please please please stop talking?\'94 He did not say anything but looked at the bags against the wall of the station. There were labels on them from all the hotels where they had spent nights. \'93But I don\'92t want you to,\'94 he said, \'93I don\'92t care anything about it.\'94 \'93I\'92ll scream,\'94 the girl said. The woman came out through the curtains with two glasses of beer and put them down on the damp felt pads. \'93The train comes in five minutes,\'94 she said. \'93What did she say?\'94 asked the girl. \'93That the train is coming in five minutes.\'94 The girl smiled brightly at the woman, to thank her. \'93I\'92d better take the bags over to the other side of the station,\'94 the man said. She smiled at him. \'93All right. Then come back and we\'92ll finish the beer.\'94 He picked up the two heavy bags and carried them around the station to the other tracks. He looked up the tracks but could not see the train. Coming back, he walked through the barroom, where people waiting for the train were drinking. He drank an Anis at the bar and looked at the people. They were all waiting reasonably for the train. He went out through the bead curtain. She was sitting at the table and smiled at him. \'93Do you feel better?\'94 he asked. \'93I feel fine,\'94 she said. \'93There\'92s nothing wrong with me. I feel fine.\'94 The Killers THE DOOR OF HENRY\'92S LUNCH-ROOM opened and two men came in. They sat down at the counter. \'93What\'92s yours?\'94 George asked them. \'93I don\'92t know,\'94 one of the men said. \'93What do you want to eat, Al?\'94 \'93I don\'92t know,\'94 said Al. \'93I don\'92t know what I want to eat.\'94 Outside it was getting dark. The street-light came on outside the window. The two men at the counter read the menu. From the other end of the counter Nick Adams watched them. He had been talking to George when they came in. \'93I\'92ll have a roast pork tenderloin with apple sauce and mashed potatoes,\'94 the first man said. \'93It isn\'92t ready yet.\'94 \'93What the hell do you put it on the card for?\'94 \'93That\'92s the dinner,\'94 George explained. \'93You can get that at six o\'92clock.\'94 George looked at the clock on the wall behind the counter. \'93It\'92s five o\'92clock.\'94 \'93The clock says twenty minutes past five,\'94 the second man said. \'93It\'92s twenty minutes fast.\'94 \'93Oh, to hell with the clock,\'94 the first man said. \'93What have you got to eat?\'94 \'93I can give you any kind of sandwiches,\'94 George said. \'93You can have ham and eggs, bacon and eggs, liver and bacon, or a steak.\'94 \'93Give me chicken croquettes with green peas and cream sauce and mashed potatoes.\'94 \'93That\'92s the dinner.\'94 \'93Everything we want\'92s the dinner, eh? That\'92s the way you work it.\'94 \'93I can give you ham and eggs, bacon and eggs, liver\'97\'94 \'93I\'92ll take ham and eggs,\'94 the man called Al said. He wore a derby hat and a black overcoat buttoned across the chest. His face was small and white and he had tight lips. He wore a silk muffler and gloves. \'93Give me bacon and eggs,\'94 said the other man. He was about the same size as Al. Their faces were different, but they were dressed like twins. Both wore overcoats too tight for them. They sat leaning forward, their elbows on the counter. \'93Got anything to drink?\'94 Al asked. \'93Silver beer, bevo, ginger-ale,\'94 George said. \'93I mean you got anything to drink?\'94 \'93Just those I said.\'94 \'93This is a hot town,\'94 said the other. \'93What do they call it?\'94 \'93Summit.\'94 \'93Ever hear of it?\'94 Al asked his friend. \'93No,\'94 said the friend. \'93What do you do here nights?\'94 Al asked. \'93They eat the dinner,\'94 his friend said. \'93They all come here and eat the big dinner.\'94 \'93That\'92s right,\'94 George said. \'93So you think that\'92s right?\'94 Al asked George. \'93Sure.\'94 \'93You\'92re a pretty bright boy, aren\'92t you?\'94 \'93Sure,\'94 said George. \'93Well, you\'92re not,\'94 said the other little man. \'93Is he, Al?\'94 \'93He\'92s dumb,\'94 said Al. He turned to Nick. \'93What\'92s your name?\'94 \'93Adams.\'94 \'93Another bright boy,\'94 Al said. \'93Ain\'92t he a bright boy, Max?\'94 \'93The town\'92s full of bright boys,\'94 Max said. George put the two platters, one of ham and eggs, the other of bacon and eggs, on the counter. He set down two side-dishes of fried potatoes and closed the wicket into the kitchen. \'93Which is yours?\'94 he asked Al. \'93Don\'92t you remember?\'94 \'93Ham and eggs.\'94 \'93Just a bright boy,\'94 Max said. He leaned forward and took the ham and eggs. Both men ate with their gloves on. George watched them eat. \'93What are you looking it?\'94 Max looked at George. \'93Nothing.\'94 \'93The hell you were. You were looking at me.\'94 \'93Maybe the boy meant it for a joke, Max,\'94 Al said. George laughed. \'93You don\'92t have to laugh,\'94 Max said to him. \'93You don\'92t have to laugh at all, see?\'94 \'93All right,\'94 said George. \'93So he thinks it\'92s all right.\'94 Max turned to Al. \'93He thinks it\'92s all right. That\'92s a good one.\'94 \'93Oh, he\'92s a thinker,\'94 Al said. They went on eating. \'93What\'92s the bright boy\'92s name down the counter?\'94 Al asked Max. \'93Hey, bright boy,\'94 Max said to Nick. \'93You go around on the other side of the counter with your boy friend.\'94 \'93What\'92s the idea?\'94 Nick asked. \'93There isn\'92t any idea.\'94 \'93You better go around, bright boy,\'94 Al said. Nick went around behind the counter. \'93What\'92s the idea?\'94 George asked. \'93None of your damn business,\'94 Al said. \'93Who\'92s out in the kitchen?\'94 \'93The nigger.\'94 \'93What do you mean the nigger?\'94 \'93The nigger that cooks.\'94 \'93Tell him to come in.\'94 \'93What\'92s the idea?\'94 \'93Tell him to come in.\'94 \'93Where do you think you are?\'94 \'93We know damn well where we are,\'94 the man called Max said. \'93Do we look silly?\'94 \'93You talk silly,\'94 Al said to him. \'93What the hell do you argue with this kid for? Listen,\'94 he said to George, \'93tell the nigger to come out here.\'94 \'93What are you going to do to him?\'94 \'93Nothing. Use your head, bright boy. What would we do to a nigger?\'94 George opened the slit that opened back into the kitchen. \'93Sam,\'94 he called. \'93Come in here a minute.\'94 The door to the kitchen opened and the nigger came in. \'93What was it?\'94 he asked. The two men at the counter took a look at him. \'93All right, nigger. You stand right there,\'94 Al said. Sam, the nigger, standing in his apron, looked at the two men sitting at the counter. \'93Yes, sir,\'94 he said. Al got down from his stool. \'93I\'92m going back to the kitchen with the nigger and bright boy,\'94 he said. \'93Go on back to the kitchen, nigger. You go with him, bright boy.\'94 The little man walked after Nick and Sam, the cook, back into the kitchen. The door shut after them. The man called Max sat at the counter opposite George. He didn\'92t look at George but looked in the mirror that ran along back of the counter. Henry\'92s had been made over from a saloon into a lunch-counter. \'93Well, bright boy,\'94 Max said, looking into the mirror, \'93why don\'92t you say something?\'94 \'93What\'92s it all about?\'94 \'93Hey, Al,\'94 Max called, \'93bright boy wants to know what it\'92s all about.\'94 \'93Why don\'92t you tell him?\'94 Al\'92s voice came from the kitchen. \'93What do you think it\'92s all about?\'94 \'93I don\'92t know.\'94 \'93What do you think?\'94 Max looked into the mirror all the time he was talking. \'93I wouldn\'92t say.\'94 \'93Hey, Al, bright boy says he wouldn\'92t say what he thinks it\'92s all about.\'94 \'93I can hear you, all right,\'94 Al said from the kitchen. He had propped open the slit that dishes passed through into the kitchen with a catsup bottle. \'93Listen, bright boy,\'94 he said from the kitchen to George. \'93Stand a little further along the bar. You move a little to the left. Max.\'94 He was like a photographer arranging for a group picture. \'93Talk to me, bright boy,\'94 Max said. \'93What do you trunk\'92s going to happen?\'94 George did not say anything. \'93I\'92ll tell you,\'94 Max said. \'93We\'92re going to kill a Swede. Do you know a big Swede named Ole Andreson?\'94 \'93Yes.\'94 \'93He comes here to eat every night, don\'92t he?\'94 \'93Sometimes he comes here.\'94 \'93He comes here at six o\'92clock, don\'92t he?\'94 \'93If he comes.\'94 \'93We know all that, bright boy,\'94 Max said. \'93Talk about something else. Ever go to the movies?\'94 \'93Once in a while.\'94 \'93You ought to go to the movies more. The movies are fine for a bright boy like you.\'94 \'93What are you going to kill Ole Andreson for? What did he ever do to you?\'94 \'93He never had a chance to do anything to us. He never even seen us.\'94 \'93And he\'92s only going to see us once,\'94 Al said from the kitchen. \'93What are you going to kill him for, then?\'94 George asked. \'93We\'92re killing him for a friend. Just to oblige a friend, bright boy.\'94 \'93Shut up,\'94 said Al from the kitchen. \'93You talk too goddam much.\'94 \'93Well, I got to keep bright boy amused. Don\'92t I, bright boy?\'94 \'93You talk too damn much,\'94 Al said. \'93The nigger and my bright boy are amused by themselves. I got them tied up like a couple of girl friends in the convent.\'94 \'93I suppose you were in a convent?\'94 \'93You never know.\'94 \'93You were in a kosher convent. That\'92s where you were.\'94 George looked up at the clock. \'93If anybody comes in you tell them the cook is off, and if they keep after it, you tell them you\'92ll go back and cook yourself. Do you get that, bright boy?\'94 \'93All right,\'94 George said. \'93What you going to do with us afterward?\'94 \'93That\'92ll depend,\'94 Max said. \'93That\'92s one of those things you never know at the time.\'94 George looked up at the clock. It was a quarter past six. The door from the street opened. A street-car motorman came in. \'93Hello, George,\'94 he said. \'93Can I get supper?\'94 \'93Sam\'92s gone out,\'94 George said. \'93He\'92ll be back in about half an hour.\'94 \'93I\'92d better go up the street,\'94 the motorman said. George looked at the clock. It was twenty minutes past six. \'93That was nice, bright boy,\'94 Max said. \'93You\'92re a regular little gentleman.\'94 \'93He knew I\'92d blow his head off,\'94 Al said from the kitchen. \'93No,\'94 said Max. \'93It ain\'92t that. Bright boy is nice. He\'92s a nice boy. I like him.\'94 At six-fifty-five George said: \'93He\'92s not coming.\'94 Two other people had been in the lunch-room. Once George had gone out to the kitchen and made a ham-and-egg sandwich \'93to go\'94 that a man wanted to take with him. Inside the kitchen he saw Al, his derby hat tipped back, sitting on a stool beside the wicket with the muzzle of a sawed-off shotgun resting on the ledge. Nick and the cook were back to back in the corner, a towel tied in each of their mouths. George had cooked the sandwich, wrapped it up in oiled paper, put it in a bag, brought it in, and the man had paid for it and gone out. \'93Bright boy can do everything,\'94 Max said. \'93He can cook and everything. You\'92d make some girl a nice wife, bright boy.\'94 \'93Yes?\'94 George said. \'93Your friend, Ole Andreson, isn\'92t going to come.\'94 \'93We\'92ll give him ten minutes,\'94 Max said. Max watched the mirror and the clock. The hands of the clock marked seven o\'92clock, and then five minutes past seven. \'93Come on, Al,\'94 said Max. \'93We better go. He\'92s not coming.\'94 \'93Better give him five minutes,\'94 Al said from the kitchen. In the five minutes a man came in, and George explained that the cook was sick. \'93Why the hell don\'92t you get another cook?\'94 the man asked. \'93Aren\'92t you running a lunch-counter?\'94 He went out. \'93Come on, Al,\'94 Max said. \'93What about the two bright boys and the nigger?\'94 \'93They\'92re all right.\'94 \'93You think so?\'94 \'93Sure. We\'92re through with it.\'94 \'93I don\'92t like it,\'94 said Al. \'93It\'92s sloppy. You talk too much.\'94 \'93Oh, what the hell,\'94 said Max. \'93We got to keep amused, haven\'92t we?\'94 \'93You talk too much, all the same,\'94 Al said. He came out from the kitchen. The cutoff barrels of the shotgun made a slight bulge under the waist of his too tight-fitting overcoat. He straightened his coat with his gloved hands. \'93So long, bright boy,\'94 he said to George. \'93You got a lot of luck.\'94 \'93That\'92s the truth,\'94 Max said. \'93You ought to play the races, bright boy.\'94 The two of them went out the door. George watched them, through the window, pass under the arc-light and cross the street. In their tight overcoats and derby hats they looked like a vaudeville team. George went back through the swinging-door into the kitchen and untied Nick and the cook. \'93I don\'92t want any more of that,\'94 said Sam, the cook. \'93I don\'92t want any more of that.\'94 Nick stood up. He had never had a towel in his mouth before. \'93Say,\'94 he said. \'93What the hell?\'94 He was trying to swagger it off. \'93They were going to kill Ole Andreson,\'94 George said. \'93They were going to shoot him when he came in to eat.\'94 \'93Ole Andreson?\'94 \'93Sure.\'94 The cook felt the corners of his mouth with his thumbs. \'93They all gone?\'94 he asked. \'93Yeah,\'94 said George. \'93They\'92re gone now.\'94 \'93I don\'92t like it,\'94 said the cook. \'93I don\'92t like any of it at all.\'94 \'93Listen,\'94 George said to Nick. \'93You better go see Ole Andreson.\'94 \'93All right.\'94 \'93You better not have anything to do with it at all,\'94 Sam, the cook, said. \'93You better stay way out of it.\'94 \'93Don\'92t go if you don\'92t want to,\'94 George said. \'93Mixing up in this ain\'92t going to get you anywhere,\'94 the cook said. \'93You stay out of it.\'94 \'93I\'92ll go see him,\'94 Nick said to George. \'93Where does he live?\'94 The cook turned away. \'93Little boys always know what they want to do,\'94 he said. \'93He lives up at Hirsch\'92s rooming-house,\'94 George said to Nick. \'93I\'92ll go up there.\'94 Outside the arc-light shone through the bare branches of a tree. Nick walked up the street beside the car-tracks and turned at the next arc-light down a side-street. Three houses up the street was Hirsch\'92s rooming-house. Nick walked up the two steps and pushed the bell. A woman came to the door. \'93Is Ole Andreson here?\'94 \'93Do you want to see him?\'94 \'93Yes, if he\'92s in.\'94 Nick followed the woman up a flight of stairs and back to the end of a corridor. She knocked on the door. \'93Who is it?\'94 \'93It\'92s somebody to see you, Mr. Andreson,\'94 the woman said. \'93It\'92s Nick Adams.\'94 \'93Come in.\'94 Nick opened the door and went into the room. Ole Andreson was lying on the bed with all his clothes on. He had been a heavyweight prizefighter and he was too long for the bed. He lay with his head on two pillows. He did not look at Nick. \'93What was it?\'94 he asked. \'93I was up at Henry\'92s,\'94 Nick said, \'93and two fellows came in and tied up me and the cook, and they said they were going to kill you.\'94 It sounded silly when he said it. Ole Andreson said nothing. \'93They put us out in the kitchen,\'94 Nick went on. \'93They were going to shoot you when you came in to supper.\'94 Ole Andreson looked at the wall and did not say anything. \'93George thought I better come and tell you about it.\'94 \'93There isn\'92t anything I can do about it,\'94 Ole Andreson said. \'93I\'92ll tell you what they were like.\'94 \'93I don\'92t want to know what they were like,\'94 Ole Andreson said. He looked at the wall. \'93Thanks for coming to tell me about it.\'94 \'93That\'92s all right.\'94 Nick looked at the big man lying on the bed. \'93Don\'92t you want me to go and see the police?\'94 \'93No,\'94 Ole Andreson said. \'93That wouldn\'92t do any good.\'94 \'93Isn\'92t there something I could do?\'94 \'93No. There ain\'92t anything to do.\'94 \'93Maybe it was just a bluff.\'94 \'93No. It ain\'92t just a bluff.\'94 Ole Andreson rolled over toward the wall. \'93The only thing is,\'94 he said, talking toward the wall, \'93I just can\'92t make up my mind to go out. I been in here all day.\'94 \'93Couldn\'92t you get out of town?\'94 \'93No,\'94 Ole Andreson said. \'93I\'92m through with all that running around.\'94 He looked at the wall. \'93There ain\'92t anything to do now.\'94 \'93Couldn\'92t you fix it up some way?\'94 \'93No. I got in wrong.\'94 He talked in the same flat voice. \'93There ain\'92t anything to do. After a while I\'92ll make up my mind to go out.\'94 \'93I better go back and see George,\'94 Nick said. \'93So long,\'94 said Ole Andreson. He did not look toward Nick. \'93Thanks for coming around.\'94 Nick went out. As he shut the door he saw Ole Andreson with all his clothes on, lying on the bed looking at the wall. \'93He\'92s been in his room all day,\'94 the landlady said down-stairs. \'93I guess he don\'92t feel well. I said to him: \'91Mr. Andreson, you ought to go out and take a walk on a nice fall day like this,\'92 but he didn\'92t feel like it.\'94 \'93He doesn\'92t want to go out.\'94 \'93I\'92m sorry he don\'92t feel well,\'94 the woman said. \'93He\'92s an awfully nice man. He was in the ring, you know.\'94 \'93I know it.\'94 \'93You\'92d never know it except from the way his face is,\'94 the woman said. They stood talking just inside the street door. \'93He\'92s just as gentle.\'94 \'93Well, good-night, Mrs. Hirsch,\'94 Nick said. \'93I\'92m not Mrs. Hirsch,\'94 the woman said. \'93She owns the place. I just look after it for her. I\'92m Mrs. Bell.\'94 \'93Well, good-night, Mrs. Bell,\'94 Nick said. \'93Good-night,\'94 the woman said. Nick walked up the dark street to the corner under the arc-light, and then along the car-tracks to Henry\'92s eating-house. George was inside, back of the counter. \'93Did you see Ole?\'94 \'93Yes,\'94 said Nick. \'93He\'92s in his room and he won\'92t go out.\'94 The cook opened the door from the kitchen when he heard Nick\'92s voice. \'93I don\'92t even listen to it,\'94 he said and shut the door. \'93Did you tell him about it?\'94 George asked. \'93Sure. I told him but he knows what it\'92s all about.\'94 \'93What\'92s he going to do?\'94 \'93Nothing.\'94 \'93They\'92ll kill him.\'94 \'93I guess they will.\'94 \'93He must have got mixed up in something in Chicago.\'94 \'93I guess so,\'94 said Nick. \'93It\'92s a hell of a thing.\'94 \'93It\'92s an awful thing,\'94 Nick said. They did not say anything. George reached down for a towel and wiped the counter. \'93I wonder what he did?\'94 Nick said. \'93Double-crossed somebody. That\'92s what they kill them for.\'94 \'93I\'92m going to get out of this town,\'94 Nick said. \'93Yes,\'94 said George. \'93That\'92s a good thing to do.\'94 \'93I can\'92t stand to think about him waiting in the room and knowing he\'92s going to get it. It\'92s too damned awful.\'94 \'93Well,\'94 said George, \'93you better not think about it.\'94 Che Ti Dice la Patria? THE ROAD OF THE PASS WAS HARD AND smooth and not yet dusty in the early morning. Below were the hills with oak and chestnut trees, and far away below was the sea. On the other side were snowy mountains. We came down from the pass through wooded country. There were bags of charcoal piled beside the road, and through the trees we saw charcoal-burners\'92 huts. It was Sunday and the road, rising and falling, but always dropping away from the altitude of the pass, went through the scrub woods and through villages. Outside the villages there were fields with vines. The fields were brown and the vines coarse and thick. The houses were white, and in the streets the men, in their Sunday clothes, were playing bowls. Against the walls of some of the houses there were pear trees, their branches candelabraed against the white walls. The pear trees had been sprayed, and the walls of the houses were stained a metallic blue-green by the spray vapor. There were small clearings around the villages where the vines grew, and then the woods. In a village, twenty kilometres above Spezia, there was a crowd in the square, and a young man carrying a suitcase came up to the car and asked us to take him in to Spezia. \'93There are only two places, and they are occupied,\'94 I said. We had an old Ford coup\'e9. \'93I will ride on the outside.\'94 \'93You will be uncomfortable.\'94 \'93That makes nothing. I must go to Spezia.\'94 \'93Should we take him?\'94 I asked Guy. \'93He seems to be going anyway,\'94 Guy said. The young man handed in a parcel through the window. \'93Look after this,\'94 he said. Two men tied his suitcase on the back of the car, above our suitcases. He shook hands with every one, explained that to a Fascist and a man as used to travelling as himself there was no discomfort, and climbed up on the running-board on the left-hand side of the car, holding on inside, his right arm through the open window. \'93You can start,\'94 he said. The crowd waved. He waved with his free hand. \'93What did he say?\'94 Guy asked me. \'93That we could start.\'94 \'93Isn\'92t he nice?\'94 Guy said. The road followed a river. Across the river were mountains. The sun was taking the frost out of the grass. It was bright and cold and the air came through the open wind-shield. \'93How do you think he likes it out there?\'94 Guy was looking up the road. His view out of his side of the car was blocked by our guest. The young man projected from the side of the car like the figurehead of a ship. He had turned his coat collar up and pulled his hat down and his nose looked cold in the wind. \'93Maybe he\'92ll get enough of it,\'94 Guy said. \'93That\'92s the side our bum tire\'92s on.\'94 \'93Oh, he\'92d leave us if we blew out,\'94 I said. \'93He wouldn\'92t get his travelling-clothes dirty.\'94 \'93Well, I don\'92t mind him,\'94 Guy said\'97\'93except the way he leans out on the turns.\'94 The woods were gone; the road had left the river to climb; the radiator was boiling; the young man looked annoyedly and suspiciously at the steam and rusty water; the engine was grinding, with both Guy\'92s feet on the first-speed pedal, up and up, back and forth and up, and, finally, out level. The grinding stopped, and in the new quiet there was a great churning bubbling in the radiator. We were at the top of the last range above Spezia and the sea. The road descended with short, barely rounded turns. Our guest hung out on the turns and nearly pulled the top-heavy car over. \'93You can\'92t tell him not to,\'94 I said to Guy. \'93It\'92s his sense of self-preservation.\'94 \'93The great Italian sense.\'94 \'93The greatest Italian sense.\'94 We came down around curves, through deep dust, the dust powdering the olive trees. Spezia spread below along the sea. The road flattened outside the town. Our guest put his head in the window. \'93I want to stop.\'94 \'93Stop it,\'94 I said to Guy. We slowed up, at the side of the road. The young man got down, went to the back of the car and untied the suitcase. \'93I stop here, so you won\'92t get into trouble carrying passengers,\'94 he said. \'93My package.\'94 I handed him the package. He reached in his pocket. \'93How much do I owe you?\'94 \'93Nothing.\'94 \'93Why not?\'94 \'93I don\'92t know,\'94 I said. \'93Then thanks,\'94 the young man said, not \'93thank you,\'94 or \'93thank you very much,\'94 or \'93thank you a thousand times,\'94 all of which you formerly said in Italy to a man when he handed you a time-table or explained about a direction. The young man uttered the lowest form of the word \'93thanks\'94 and looked after us suspiciously as Guy started the car. I waved my hand at him. He was too dignified to reply. We went on into Spezia. \'93That\'92s a young man that will go a long way in Italy,\'94 I said to Guy. \'93Well,\'94 said Guy, \'93he went twenty kilometres with us.\'94 A MEAL IN SPEZIA We came into Spezia looking for a place to eat. The street was wide and the houses high and yellow. We followed the tram-track into the center of town. On the walls of the houses were stencilled eyebugging portraits of Mussolini, with hand-painted \'93vivas,\'94 the double V in black paint with drippings of paint down the wall. Side-streets went down to the harbor. It was bright and the people were all out for Sunday. The stone paving had been sprinkled and there were damp stretches in the dust. We went close to the curb to avoid a tram. \'93Let\'92s eat somewhere simple,\'94 Guy said. We stopped opposite two restaurant signs. We were standing across the street and I was buying the papers. The two restaurants were side by side. A woman standing in the doorway of one smiled at us and we crossed the street and went in. It was dark inside and at the back of the room three girls were sitting at a table with an old woman. Across from us, at another table, sat a sailor. He sat there neither eating nor drinking. Further back, a young man in a blue suit was writing at a table. His hair was pomaded and shining and he was very smartly dressed and clean-cut looking. The light came through the doorway, and through the window where vegetables, fruit, steaks, and chops were arranged in a show-case. A girl came and took our order and another girl stood in the doorway. We noticed that she wore nothing under her house dress. The girl who took our order put her arm around Guy\'92s neck while we were looking at the menu. There were three girls in all, and they all took turns going and standing in the doorway. The old woman at the table in the back of the room spoke to them and they sat down again with her. There was no doorway leading from the room except into the kitchen. A curtain hung over it. The girl who had taken our order came in from the kitchen with spaghetti. She put it on the table and brought a bottle of red wine and sat down at the table. \'93Well,\'94 I said to Guy, \'93you wanted to eat some place simple.\'94 \'93This isn\'92t simple. This is complicated.\'94 \'93What do you say?\'94 asked the girl. \'93Are you Germans?\'94 \'93South Germans,\'94 I said. \'93The South Germans are a gentle, lovable people.\'94 \'93Don\'92t understand,\'94 she said. \'93What\'92s the mechanics of this place?\'94 Guy asked. \'93Do I have to let her put her arm around my neck?\'94 \'93Certainly,\'94 I said. \'93Mussolini has abolished the brothels. This is a restaurant.\'94 The girl wore a one-piece dress. She leaned forward against the table and put her hands on her breasts and smiled. She smiled better on one side than on the other and turned the good side toward us. The charm of the good side had been enhanced by some event which had smoothed the other side of her nose in, as warm wax can be smoothed. Her nose, however, did not look like warm wax. It was very cold and firmed, only smoothed in. \'93You like me?\'94 she asked Guy. \'93He adores you,\'94 I said. \'93But he doesn\'92t speak Italian.\'94 \'93Ich spreche Deutsch,\'94 she said, and stroked Guy\'92s hair. \'93Speak to the lady in your native tongue, Guy.\'94 \'93Where do you come from?\'94 asked the lady. \'93Potsdam.\'94 \'93And you will stay here now for a little while?\'94 \'93In this so dear Spezia?\'94 I asked. \'93Tell her we have to go,\'94 said Guy. \'93Tell her we are very ill, and have no money.\'94 \'93My friend is a misogynist,\'94 I said, \'93an old German misogynist.\'94 \'93Tell him I love him.\'94 I told him. \'93Will you shut your mouth and get us out of here?\'94 Guy said. The lady had placed another arm around his neck. \'93Tell him he is mine,\'94 she said. I told him. \'93Will you get us out of here?\'94 \'93You are quarrelling,\'94 the lady said. \'93You do not love one another.\'94 \'93We are Germans,\'94 I said proudly, \'93old South Germans.\'94 \'93Tell him he is a beautiful boy,\'94 the lady said. Guy is thirty-eight and takes some pride in the fact that he is taken for a travelling salesman in France. \'93You are a beautiful boy,\'94 I said. \'93Who says so?\'94 Guy asked, \'93you or her?\'94 \'93She does. I\'92m just your interpreter. Isn\'92t that what you got me in on this trip for?\'94 \'93I\'92m glad it\'92s her,\'94 said Guy. \'93I didn\'92t want to have to leave you here too.\'94 \'93I don\'92t know. Spezia\'92s a lovely place.\'94 \'93Spezia,\'94 the lady said. \'93You are talking about Spezia.\'94 \'93Lovely place,\'94 I said. \'93It is my country,\'94 she said. \'93Spezia is my home and Italy is my country.\'94 \'93She says that Italy is her country.\'94 \'93Tell her it looks like her country,\'94 Guy said. \'93What have you for dessert?\'94 I asked. \'93Fruit,\'94 she said. \'93We have bananas.\'94 \'93Bananas are all right,\'94 Guy said. \'93They\'92ve got skins on.\'94 \'93Oh, he takes bananas,\'94 the lady said. She embraced Guy. \'93What does she say?\'94 he asked, keeping his face out of the way. \'93She is pleased because you take bananas.\'94 \'93Tell her I don\'92t take bananas.\'94 \'93The Signor does not take bananas.\'94 \'93Ah,\'94 said the lady, crestfallen, \'93he doesn\'92t take bananas.\'94 \'93Tell her I take a cold bath every morning,\'94 Guy said. \'93The Signor takes a cold bath every morning.\'94 \'93No understand,\'94 the lady said. Across from us, the property sailor had not moved. No one in the place paid any attention to him. \'93We want the bill,\'94 I said. \'93Oh, no. You must stay.\'94 \'93Listen,\'94 the clean-cut young man said from the table where he was writing, \'93let them go. These two are worth nothing.\'94 The lady took my hand. \'93You won\'92t stay? You won\'92t ask him to stay?\'94 \'93We have to go,\'94 I said. \'93We have to get to Pisa, or if possible, Firenze, tonight. We can amuse ourselves in those cities at the end of the day. It is now the day. In the day we must cover distance.\'94 \'93To stay a little while is nice.\'94 \'93To travel is necessary during the light of day.\'94 \'93Listen,\'94 the clean-cut young man said. \'93Don\'92t bother to talk with these two. I tell you they are worth nothing and I know.\'94 \'93Bring us the bill,\'94 I said. She brought the bill from the old woman and went back and sat at the table. Another girl came in from the kitchen. She walked the length of the room and stood in the doorway. \'93Don\'92t bother with these two,\'94 the clean-cut young man said in a wearied voice. \'93Come and eat. They are worth nothing.\'94 We paid the bill and stood up. All the girls, the old woman, and the clean-cut young man sat down at table together. The property sailor sat with his head in his hands. No one had spoken to him all the time we were at lunch. The girl brought us our change that the old woman counted out for her and went back to her place at the table. We left a tip on the table and went out. When we were seated in the car ready to start, the girl came out and stood in the door. We started and I waved to her. She did not wave, but stood there looking after us. AFTER THE RAIN It was raining hard when we passed through the suburbs of Genoa and, even going very slowly behind the tram-cars and the motor trucks, liquid mud splashed on to the sidewalks, so that people stepped into doorways as they saw us coming. In San Pier d\'92Arena, the industrial suburb outside of Genoa, there is a wide street with two car-tracks and we drove down the center to avoid sending the mud on to the men going home from work. On our left was the Mediterranean. There was a big sea running and waves broke and the wind blew the spray against the car. A river-bed that, when we had passed, going into Italy, had been wide, stony and dry, was running brown, and up to the banks. The brown water discolored the sea and as the waves thinned and cleared in breaking, the light came through the yellow water and the crests, detached by the wind, blew across the road. A big car passed us, going fast, and a sheet of muddy water rose up and over our wind-shield and radiator. The automatic wind-shield cleaner moved back and forth, spreading the film over the glass. We stopped and ate lunch at Sestri. There was no heat in the restaurant and we kept our hats and coats on. We could see the car outside, through the window. It was covered with mud and was stopped beside some boats that had been pulled up beyond the waves. In the restaurant you could see your breath. The pasta asciutta was good; the wine tasted of alum, and we poured water in it. Afterward the waiter brought beefsteak and fried potatoes. A man and a woman sat at the far end of the restaurant. He was middle-aged and she was young and wore black. All during the meal she would blow out her breath in the cold damp air. The man would look at it and shake his head. They ate without talking and the man held her hand under the table. She was good-looking and they seemed very sad. They had a travelling-bag with them. We had the papers and I read the account of the Shanghai fighting aloud to Guy. After the meal, he left with the waiter in search for a place which did not exist in the restaurant, and I cleaned off the wind-shield, the lights and the license plates with a rag. Guy came back and we backed the car out and started. The waiter had taken him across the road and into an old house. The people in the house were suspicious and the waiter had remained with Guy to see nothing was stolen. \'93Although I don\'92t know how, me not being a plumber, they expected me to steal anything,\'94 Guy said. As we came up on a headland beyond the town, the wind struck the car and nearly tipped it over. \'93It\'92s good it blows us away from the sea,\'94 Guy said. \'93Well,\'94 I said, \'93they drowned Shelley somewhere along here.\'94 \'93That was down by Viareggio,\'94 Guy said. \'93Do you remember what we came to this country for?\'94 \'93Yes,\'94 I said, \'93but we didn\'92t get it.\'94 \'93We\'92ll be out of it tonight.\'94 \'93If we can get past Ventimiglia.\'94 \'93We\'92ll see. I don\'92t like to drive this coast at night.\'94 It was early afternoon and the sun was out. Below, the sea was blue with whitecaps running toward Savona. Back, beyond the cape, the brown and blue water joined. Out ahead of us, a tramp steamer was going up the coast. \'93Can you still see Genoa?\'94 Guy asked. \'93Oh, yes.\'94 \'93That next big cape ought to put it out of sight.\'94 \'93We\'92ll see it a long time yet. I can still see Portofino Cape behind it.\'94 Finally we could not see Genoa. I looked back as we came out and there was only the sea, and below, in the bay, a line of beach with fishing-boats and above, on the side of the hill, a town and then capes far down the coast. \'93It\'92s gone now,\'94 I said to Guy. \'93Oh, it\'92s been gone a long time now.\'94 \'93But we couldn\'92t be sure till we got way out.\'94 There was a sign with a picture of an S-turn and Svolta Pericolosa. The road curved around the headland and the wind blew through the crack in the wind-shield. Below the cape was a flat stretch beside the sea. The wind had dried the mud and the wheels were beginning to lift dust. On the flat road we passed a Fascist riding a bicycle, a heavy revolver in a holster on his back. He held the middle of the road on his bicycle and we turned out for him. He looked up at us as we passed. Ahead there was a railway crossing, and as we came toward it the gates went down. As we waited, the Fascist came up on his bicycle. The train went by and Guy started the engine. \'93Wait,\'94 the bicycle man shouted from behind the car. \'93Your number\'92s dirty.\'94 I got out with a rag. The number had been cleaned at lunch. \'93You can read it,\'94 I said. \'93You think so?\'94 \'93Read it.\'94 \'93I cannot read it. It is dirty.\'94 I wiped it off with the rag. \'93How\'92s that?\'94 \'93Twenty-five lire.\'94 \'93What?\'94 I said. \'93You could have read it. It\'92s only dirty from the state of the roads.\'94 \'93You don\'92t like Italian roads?\'94 \'93They are dirty.\'94 \'93Fifty lire.\'94 He spat in the road. \'93Your car is dirty and you are dirty too.\'94 \'93Good. And give me a receipt with your name.\'94 He took out a receipt book, made in duplicate, and perforated, so one side could be given to the customer, and the other side filled in and kept as a stub. There was no carbon to record what the customer\'92s ticket said. \'93Give me fifty lire.\'94 He wrote in indelible pencil, tore out the slip and handed it to me. I read it. \'93This is for twenty-five lire.\'94 \'93A mistake,\'94 he said, and changed the twenty-five to fifty. \'93And now the other side. Make it fifty in the part you keep.\'94 He smiled a beautiful Italian smile and wrote something on the receipt stub, holding it so I could not see. \'93Go on,\'94 he said, \'93before your number gets dirty again.\'94 We drove for two hours after it was dark and slept in Mentone that night. It seemed very cheerful and clean and sane and lovely. We had driven from Ventimiglia to Pisa and Florence, across the Romagna to Rimini, back through Forli, Imola, Bologna, Parma, Piacenza and Genoa, to Ventimiglia again. The whole trip had taken only ten days. Naturally, in such a short trip, we had no opportunity to see how things were with the country or the people. Fifty Grand \'93HOW ARE YOU GOING YOURSELF, Jack?\'94 I asked him. \'93You seen this Walcott?\'94 he says. \'93Just in the gym.\'94 \'93Well,\'94 Jack says, \'93I\'92m going to need a lot of luck with that boy.\'94 \'93He can\'92t hit you. Jack,\'94 Soldier said. \'93I wish to hell he couldn\'92t.\'94 \'93He couldn\'92t hit you with a handful of bird-shot.\'94 \'93Bird-shot\'92d be all right,\'94 Jack says. \'93I wouldn\'92t mind bird-shot any.\'94 \'93He looks easy to hit,\'94 I said. \'93Sure,\'94 Jack says, \'93he ain\'92t going to last long. He ain\'92t going to last like you and me, Jerry. But right now he\'92s got everything.\'94 \'93You\'92ll left-hand him to death.\'94 \'93Maybe,\'94 Jack says. \'93Sure. I got a chance to.\'94 \'93Handle him like you handled Kid Lewis.\'94 \'93Kid Lewis,\'94 Jack said. \'93That kike!\'94 The three of us, Jack Brennan, Soldier Bartlett, and I were in Hanley\'92s. There were a couple of broads sitting at the next table to us. They had been drinking. \'93What do you mean, kike?\'94 one of the broads says. \'93What do you mean, kike, you big Irish bum?\'94 \'93Sure,\'94 Jack says. \'93That\'92s it.\'94 \'93Kikes,\'94 this broad goes on. \'93They\'92re always talking about kikes, these big Irishmen. What do you mean, kikes?\'94 \'93Come on. Let\'92s get out of here.\'94 \'93Kikes,\'94 this broad goes on. \'93Whoever saw you ever buy a drink? Your wife sews your pockets up every morning. These Irishmen and their kikes! Ted Lewis could lick you too.\'94 \'93Sure,\'94 Jack says. \'93And you give away a lot of things free too, don\'92t you?\'94 We went out. That was Jack. He could say what he wanted to when he wanted to say it. Jack started training out at Danny Hogan\'92s health farm over in Jersey. It was nice out there but Jack didn\'92t like it much. He didn\'92t like being away from his wife and the kids, and he was sore and grouchy most of the time. He liked me and we got along fine together; and he liked Hogan, but after a while Soldier Bartlett commenced to get on his nerves. A kidder gets to be an awful thing around a camp if his stuff goes sort of sour. Soldier was always kidding Jack, just sort of kidding him all the time. It wasn\'92t very funny and it wasn\'92t very good, and it began to get to Jack. It was sort of stuff like this. Jack would finish up with the weights and the bag and pull on the gloves. \'93You want to work?\'94 he\'92d say to Soldier. \'93Sure. How you want me to work?\'94 Soldier would ask. \'93Want me to treat you rough like Walcott? Want me to knock you down a few times?\'94 \'93That\'92s it,\'94 Jack would say. He didn\'92t like it any, though. One morning we were all out on the road. We\'92d been out quite a way and now we were coming back. We\'92d go along fast for three minutes and then walk a minute, and then go fast for three minutes again. Jack wasn\'92t ever what you would call a sprinter. He\'92d move around fast enough in the ring if he had to, but he wasn\'92t any too fast on the road. All the time we were walking Soldier was kidding him. We came up the hill to the farmhouse. \'93Well,\'94 says Jack, \'93you better go back to town. Soldier.\'94 \'93What do you mean?\'94 \'93You better go back to town and stay there.\'94 \'93What\'92s the matter?\'94 \'93I\'92m sick of hearing you talk.\'94 \'93Yes?\'94 says Soldier. \'93Yes.\'94 says Jack. \'93You\'92ll be a damn sight sicker when Walcott gets through with you.\'94 \'93Sure,\'94 says Jack, \'93maybe I will. But I know I\'92m sick of you.\'94 So Soldier went off on the train to town that same morning. I went down with him to the train. He was good and sore. \'93I was just kidding him,\'94 he said. We were waiting on the platform. \'93He can\'92t pull that stuff with me, Jerry.\'94 \'93He\'92s nervous and crabby,\'94 I said. \'93He\'92s a good fellow, Soldier.\'94 \'93The hell he is. The hell he\'92s ever been a good fellow.\'94 \'93Well,\'94 I said, \'93so long, Soldier.\'94 The train had come in. He climbed up with his bag. \'93So long, Jerry,\'94 he says. \'93You be in town before the fight?\'94 \'93I don\'92t think so.\'94 \'93See you then.\'94 He went in and the conductor swung up and the train went out. I rode back to the farm in the cart. Jack was on the porch writing a letter to his wife. The mail had come and I got the papers and went over on the other side of the porch and sat down to read. Hogan came out the door and walked over to me. \'93Did he have a jam with Soldier?\'94 \'93Not a jam,\'94 I said. \'93He just told him to go back to town.\'94 \'93I could see it coming,\'94 Hogan said. \'93He never liked Soldier much.\'94 \'93No. He don\'92t like many people.\'94 \'93He\'92s a pretty cold one,\'94 Hogan said. \'93Well, he\'92s always been fine to me.\'94 \'93Me too,\'94 Hogan said. \'93I got no kick on him. He\'92s a cold one, though.\'94 Hogan went in through the screen door and I sat there on the porch and read the papers. It was just starting to get fall weather and it\'92s nice country there in Jersey, up in the hills, and after I read the paper through I sat there and looked out at the country and the road down below against the woods with cars going along it, lifting the dust up. It was fine weather and pretty nice-looking country. Hogan came to the door and I said, \'93Say, Hogan, haven\'92t you got anything to shoot out here?\'94 \'93No,\'94 Hogan said. \'93Only sparrows.\'94 \'93Seen the paper?\'94 I said to Hogan. \'93What\'92s in it?\'94 \'93Sande booted three of them in yesterday.\'94 \'93I got that on the telephone last night.\'94 \'93You follow them pretty close, Hogan?\'94 I asked. \'93Oh, I keep in touch with them,\'94 Hogan said. \'93How about Jack?\'94 I says. \'93Does he still play them?\'94 \'93Him?\'94 said Hogan. \'93Can you see him doing it?\'94 Just then Jack came around the corner with the letter in his hand. He\'92s wearing a sweater and an old pair of pants and boxing shoes. \'93Got a stamp, Hogan?\'94 he asks. \'93Give me the letter,\'94 Hogan said. \'93I\'92ll mail it for you.\'94 \'93Say, Jack,\'94 I said, \'93didn\'92t you used to play the ponies?\'94 \'93Sure.\'94 \'93I knew you did. I knew I used to see you out at Sheepshead.\'94 \'93What did you lay off them for?\'94 Hogan asked. \'93Lost money.\'94 Jack sat down on the porch by me. He leaned back against a post. He shut his eyes in the sun. \'93Want a chair?\'94 Hogan asked. \'93No,\'94 said Jack. \'93This is fine.\'94 \'93It\'92s a nice day,\'94 I said. \'93It\'92s pretty nice out in the country.\'94 \'93I\'92d a damn sight rather be in town with the wife.\'94 \'93Well, you only got another week.\'94 \'93Yes,\'94 Jack says. \'93That\'92s so.\'94 We sat there on the porch. Hogan was inside at the office. \'93What do you think about the shape I\'92m in?\'94 Jack asked me. \'93Well, you can\'92t tell,\'94 I said. \'93You got a week to get around into form.\'94 \'93Don\'92t stall me.\'94 \'93Well,\'94 I said, \'93you\'92re not right.\'94 \'93I\'92m not sleeping,\'94 Jack said. \'93You\'92ll be all right in a couple of days.\'94 \'93No,\'94 says Jack, \'93I got the insomnia.\'94 \'93What\'92s on your mind?\'94 \'93I miss the wife.\'94 \'93Have her come out.\'94 \'93No. I\'92m too old for that.\'94 \'93We\'92ll take a long walk before you turn in and get you good and tired.\'94 \'93Tired!\'94 Jack says. \'93I\'92m tired all the time.\'94 He was that way all week. He wouldn\'92t sleep at night and he\'92d get up in the morning feeling that way, you know, when you can\'92t shut your hands. \'93He\'92s stale as poorhouse cake,\'94 Hogan said. \'93He\'92s nothing.\'94 \'93I never seen Walcott,\'94 I said. \'93He\'92ll kill him,\'94 said Hogan. \'93He\'92ll tear him in two.\'94 \'93Well,\'94 I said, \'93everybody\'92s got to get it sometime.\'94 \'93Not like this, though,\'94 Hogan said. \'93They\'92ll think he never trained. It gives the farm a black eye.\'94 \'93You hear what the reporters said about him?\'94 \'93Didn\'92t I! They said he was awful. They said they oughtn\'92t to let him fight.\'94 \'93Well,\'94 I said, \'93they\'92re always wrong, ain\'92t they?\'94 \'93Yes,\'94 said Hogan. \'93But this time they\'92re right.\'94 \'93What the hell do they know about whether a man\'92s right or not?\'94 \'93Well,\'94 said Hogan, \'93they\'92re not such fools.\'94 \'93All they did was pick Willard at Toledo. This Lardner, he\'92s so wise now, ask him about when he picked Willard at Toledo.\'94 \'93Aw, he wasn\'92t out,\'94 Hogan said. \'93He only writes the big fights.\'94 \'93I don\'92t care who they are,\'94 I said. \'93What the hell do they know? They can write maybe, but what the hell do they know?\'94 \'93You don\'92t think Jack\'92s in any shape, do you?\'94 Hogan asked. \'93No. He\'92s through. All he needs is to have Corbett pick him to win for it to be all over.\'94 \'93Well, Corbett\'92ll pick him,\'94 Hogan says. \'93Sure. He\'92ll pick him.\'94 That night Jack didn\'92t sleep any either. The next morning was the last day before the fight. After breakfast we were out on the porch again. \'93What do you think about, Jack, when you can\'92t sleep?\'94 I said. \'93Oh, I worry,\'94 Jack says. \'93I worry about property I got up in the Bronx, I worry about property I got in Florida. I worry about the kids. I worry about the wife. Sometimes I think about fights. I think about that kike Ted Lewis and I get sore. I got some stocks and I worry about them. What the hell don\'92t I think about?\'94 \'93Well,\'94 I said, \'93tomorrow night it\'92ll all be over.\'94 \'93Sure,\'94 said Jack. \'93That always helps a lot, don\'92t it? That just fixes everything all up, I suppose. Sure.\'94 He was sore all day. We didn\'92t do any work. Jack just moved around a little to loosen up. He shadow-boxed a few rounds. He didn\'92t even look good doing that. He skipped the rope a little while. He couldn\'92t sweat. \'93He\'92d be better not to do any work at all,\'94 Hogan said. We were standing watching him skip rope. \'93Don\'92t he ever sweat at all any more?\'94 \'93He can\'92t sweat.\'94 \'93Do you suppose he\'92s got the con? He never had any trouble making weight did he?\'94 \'93No, he hasn\'92t got any con. He just hasn\'92t got anything inside any more.\'94 \'93He ought to sweat,\'94 said Hogan. Jack came over, skipping the rope. He was skipping up and down in front of us, forward and back, crossing his arms every third time. \'93Well,\'94 he says. \'93What are you buzzards talking about?\'94 \'93I don\'92t think you ought to work any more,\'94 Hogan says. \'93You\'92ll be stale.\'94 \'93Wouldn\'92t that be awful?\'94 Jack says and skips away down the floor, slapping the rope hard. That afternoon John Collins showed up out at the farm. Jack was up in his room. John came out in a car from town. He had a couple of friends with him. The car stopped and they all got out. \'93Where\'92s Jack?\'94 John asked me. \'93Up in his room, lying down.\'94 \'93Lying down?\'94 \'93Yes,\'94 I said. \'93How is he?\'94 I looked at the two fellows that were with John. \'93They\'92re friends of his,\'94 John said. \'93He\'92s pretty bad,\'94 I said. \'93What\'92s the matter with him?\'94 \'93He don\'92t sleep.\'94 \'93Hell,\'94 said John. \'93That Irishman could never sleep.\'94 \'93He isn\'92t right,\'94 I said. \'93Hell,\'94 John said. \'93He\'92s never right. I\'92ve had him for ten years and he\'92s never been right yet.\'94 The fellows who were with him laughed. \'93I want you to shake hands with Mr. Morgan and Mr. Steinfelt,\'94 John said. \'93This is Mr. Doyle. He\'92s been training Jack.\'94 \'93Glad to meet you,\'94 I said. \'93Let\'92s go up and see the boy,\'94 the fellow called Morgan said. \'93Let\'92s have a look at him,\'94 Steinfelt said. We all went upstairs. \'93Where\'92s Hogan?\'94 John asked. \'93He\'92s out in the barn with a couple of his customers,\'94 I said. \'93He got many people out here now?\'94 John asked. \'93Just two.\'94 \'93Pretty quiet, ain\'92t it?\'94 Morgan said. \'93Yes,\'94 I said. \'93It\'92s pretty quiet.\'94 We were outside Jack\'92s room. John knocked on the door. There wasn\'92t any answer. \'93Maybe he\'92s asleep,\'94 I said. \'93What the hell\'92s he sleeping in the daytime for?\'94 John turned the handle and we all went in. Jack was lying asleep on the bed. He was face down and his face was in the pillow. Both his arms were around the pillow. \'93Hey, Jack!\'94 John said to him. Jack\'92s head moved a little on the pillow. \'93Jack!\'94 John says, leaning over him. Jack just dug a little deeper in the pillow. John touched him on the shoulder. Jack sat up and looked at us. He hadn\'92t shaved and he was wearing an old sweater. \'93Christ! Why can\'92t you let me sleep?\'94 he says to John. \'93Don\'92t be sore,\'94 John says. \'93I didn\'92t mean to wake you up.\'94 \'93Oh no,\'94 Jack says. \'93Of course not.\'94 \'93You know Morgan and Steinfelt,\'94 John said. \'93Glad to see you,\'94 Jack says. \'93How do you feel, Jack?\'94 Morgan asks him. \'93Fine,\'94 Jack says. \'93How the hell would I feel?\'94 \'93You look fine,\'94 Steinfelt says. \'93Yes, don\'92t 11,\'94 says Jack. \'93Say,\'94 he says to John. \'93You\'92re my manager. You get a big enough cut. Why the hell don\'92t you come out here when the reporters was out! You want Jerry and me to talk to them?\'94 \'93I had Lew fighting in Philadelphia,\'94 John said. \'93What the hell\'92s that to me?\'94 Jack says. \'93You\'92re my manager. You get a big enough cut, don\'92t you? You aren\'92t making me any money in Philadelphia, are you? Why the hell aren\'92t you out here when I ought to have you?\'94 \'93Hogan was here.\'94 \'93Hogan,\'94 Jack says. \'93Hogan\'92s as dumb as I am.\'94 \'93Soldier Bahtlett was out here wukking with you for a while, wasn\'92t he?\'94 Steinfelt said to change the subject. \'93Yes, he was out here,\'94 Jack says. \'93He was out here all right.\'94 \'93Say, Jerry,\'94 John said to me. \'93Would you go and find Hogan and tell him we want to see him in about half an hour?\'94 \'93Sure,\'94 I said. \'93Why the hell can\'92t he stick around?\'94 Jack says. \'93Stick around, Jerry.\'94 Morgan and Steinfelt looked at each other. \'93Quiet down, Jack,\'94 John said to him. \'93I better go find Hogan,\'94 I said. \'93All right, if you want to go,\'94 Jack says. \'93None of these guys are going to send you away, though.\'94 \'93I\'92ll go find Hogan,\'94 I said. Hogan was out in the gym in the barn. He had a couple of his health-farm patients with the gloves on. They neither one wanted to hit the other, for fear the other would come back and hit him. \'93That\'92ll do,\'94 Hogan said when he saw me come in. \'93You can stop the slaughter. You gentlemen take a shower and Bruce will rub you down.\'94 They climbed out through the ropes and Hogan came over to me. \'93John Collins is out with a couple of friends to see Jack,\'94 I said. \'93I saw them come up in the car.\'94 \'93Who are the two fellows with John?\'94 \'93They\'92re what you call wise boys,\'94 Hogan said. \'93Don\'92t you know them two?\'94 \'93No,\'94 I said. \'93That\'92s Happy Steinfelt and Lew Morgan. They got a pool-room.\'92 \'93I been away a long time,\'94 I said. \'93Sure,\'94 said Hogan. \'93That Happy Steinfelt\'92s a big operator.\'94 \'93I\'92ve heard his name,\'94 I said. \'93He\'92s a pretty smooth boy,\'94 Hogan said. \'93They\'92re a couple of sharpshooters.\'94 \'93Well,\'94 I said. \'93They want to see us in half an hour.\'94 \'93You mean they don\'92t want to see us until a half an hour?\'94 \'93That\'92s it.\'94 \'93Come on in the office,\'94 Hogan said. \'93To hell with those sharpshooters.\'94 After about thirty minutes or so Hogan and I went upstairs. We knocked on Jack\'92s door. They were talking inside the room. \'93Wait a minute,\'94 somebody said. \'93To hell with that stuff,\'94 Hogan said. \'93When you want to see me I\'92m down in the office.\'94 We heard the door unlock. Steinfelt opened it. \'93Come on in, Hogan,\'94 he says. \'93We\'92re all going to have a drink.\'94 \'93Well,\'94 says Hogan. \'93That\'92s something.\'94 We went in. Jack was sitting on the bed. John and Morgan were sitting on a couple of chairs. Steinfelt was standing up. \'93You\'92re a pretty mysterious lot of boys,\'94 Hogan said. \'93Hello, Danny,\'94 John says. \'93Hello, Danny,\'94 Morgan says and shakes hands. Jack doesn\'92t say anything. He just sits there on the bed. He ain\'92t with the others. He\'92s all by himself. He was wearing an old blue jersey and pants and had on boxing shoes. He needed a shave. Steinfelt and Morgan were dressers. John was quite a dresser too. Jack sat there looking Irish and tough. Steinfelt brought out a bottle and Hogan brought in some glasses and everybody had a drink. Jack and I took one and the rest of them went on and had two or three each. \'93Better save some for your ride back,\'94 Hogan said. \'93Don\'92t you worry. We got plenty,\'94 Morgan said. Jack hadn\'92t drunk anything since the one drink. He was standing up and looking at them. Morgan was sitting on the bed where Jack had sat. \'93Have a drink. Jack,\'94 John said and handed him the glass and the bottle. \'93No,\'94 Jack said, \'93I never liked to go to these wakes.\'94 They all laughed. Jack didn\'92t laugh. They were all feeling pretty good when they left. Jack stood on the porch when they got into the car. They waved to him. \'93So long,\'94 Jack said. We had supper. Jack didn\'92t say anything all during the meal except, \'93Will you pass me this?\'94 or \'93Will you pass me that?\'94 The two health-farm patients ate at the same table with us. They were pretty nice fellows. After we finished eating we went out on the porch. It was dark early. \'93Like to take a walk, Jerry?\'94 Jack asked. \'93Sure,\'94 I said. We put on our coats and started out. It was quite a way down to the main road and then we walked along the main road about a mile and a half. Cars kept going by and we would pull out to the side until they were past. Jack didn\'92t say anything. After we had stepped out into the bushes to let a big car go by Jack said, \'93To hell with this walking. Come on back to Hogan\'92s.\'94 We went along a side road that cut up over the hill and cut across the fields back to Hogan\'92s. We could see the lights of the house up on the hill. We came around to the front of the house and there standing in the doorway was Hogan. \'93Have a good walk?\'94 Hogan asked. \'93Oh, fine,\'94 Jack said. \'93Listen, Hogan. Have you got any liquor?\'94 \'93Sure,\'94 says Hogan. \'93What\'92s the idea?\'94 \'93Send it up to the room,\'94 Jack says. \'93I\'92m going to sleep tonight.\'94 \'93You\'92re the doctor,\'94 Hogan says. \'93Come on up to the room, Jerry,\'94 Jack says. Upstairs Jack sat on the bed with his head in his hands. \'93Ain\'92t it a life?\'94 Jack says. Hogan brought in a quart of liquor and two glasses. \'93Want some ginger ale?\'94 \'93What do you think I want to do, get sick?\'94 \'93I just asked you,\'94 said Hogan. \'93Have a drink?\'94 said Jack. \'93No, thanks,\'94 said Hogan. He went out. \'93How about you, Jerry?\'94 \'93I\'92ll have one with you,\'94 I said. Jack poured out a couple of drinks. \'93Now,\'94 he said, \'93I want to take it slow and easy.\'94 \'93Put some water in it,\'94 I said. \'93Yes,\'94 Jack said. \'93I guess that\'92s better.\'94 We had a couple of drinks without saying anything. Jack started to pour me another. \'93No,\'94 I said, \'93that\'92s all I want.\'94 \'93All right,\'94 Jack said. He poured himself out another big shot and put water in it. He was lighting up a little. \'93That was a fine bunch out here this afternoon,\'94 he said. \'93They don\'92t take any chances, those two.\'94 Then a little later, \'93Well,\'94 he says, \'93they\'92re right. What the hell\'92s the good in taking chances?\'94 \'93Don\'92t you want another. Jerry?\'94 he said. \'93Come on, drink along with me.\'94 \'93I don\'92t need it, Jack,\'94 I said. \'93I feel all right.\'94 \'93Just have one more,\'94 Jack said. It was softening him up. \'93All right,\'94 I said. Jack poured one for me and another big one for himself. \'93You know,\'94 he said, \'93I like liquor pretty well. If I hadn\'92t been boxing I would have drunk quite a lot.\'94 \'93Sure,\'94 I said. \'93You know,\'94 he said, \'93I missed a lot, boxing.\'94 \'93You made plenty of money.\'94 \'93Sure, that\'92s what I\'92m after. You know I miss a lot. Jerry.\'94 \'93How do you mean?\'94 \'93Well,\'94 he says, \'93like about the wife. And being away from home so much. It don\'92t do my girls any good. \'91Who\'92s your old man?\'92 some of those society kids\'92ll say to them. \'91My old man\'92s Jack Brennan.\'92 That don\'92t do them any good.\'94 \'93Hell,\'94 I said, \'93all that makes a difference is if they got dough.\'94 \'93Well,\'94 says Jack, \'93I got the dough for them all right.\'94 He poured out another drink. The bottle was about empty. \'93Put some water in it,\'94 I said. Jack poured in some water. \'93You know,\'94 he says, \'93you ain\'92t got any idea how I miss the wife.\'94 \'93Sure.\'94 \'93You ain\'92t got any idea. You can\'92t have an idea what it\'92s like.\'94 \'93It ought to be better out in the country than in town.\'94 \'93With me now,\'94 Jack said, \'93it don\'92t make any difference where I am. You can\'92t have an idea what it\'92s like.\'94 \'93Have another drink.\'94 \'93Am I getting soused? Do I talk funny?\'94 \'93You\'92re coming on all right.\'94 \'93You can\'92t have an idea what it\'92s like. They ain\'92t anybody can have an idea what it\'92s like.\'94 \'93Except the wife,\'94 I said. \'93She knows,\'94 Jack said. \'93She knows all right. She knows. You bet she knows.\'94 \'93Put some water in that,\'94 I said. \'93Jerry,\'94 says Jack, \'93you can\'92t have an idea what it gets to be like.\'94 He was good and drunk. He was looking at me steady. His eyes were sort of too steady. \'93You\'92ll sleep all right,\'94 I said. \'93Listen Jerry,\'94 Jack says. \'93You want to make some money? Get some money down on Walcott.\'94 \'93Yes?\'94 \'93Listen, Jerry,\'94 Jack put down the glass. \'93I\'92m not drunk now, see? You know what I\'92m betting on him? Fifty grand.\'94 \'93That\'92s a lot of dough.\'94 \'93Fifty grand,\'94 Jack says, \'93at two to one. I\'92ll get twenty-five thousand bucks. Get some money on him, Jerry.\'94 \'93It sounds good,\'94 I said. \'93How can I beat him?\'94 Jack says. \'93It ain\'92t crooked. How can I beat him? Why not make money on it?\'94 \'93Put some water in that,\'94 I said. \'93I\'92m through after this fight,\'94 Jack says. \'93I\'92m through with it. I got to take a beating. Why shouldn\'92t I make money on it?\'94 \'93Sure.\'94 \'93I ain\'92t slept for a week,\'94 Jack says. \'93All night I lay awake and worry my can off. I can\'92t sleep, Jerry. You ain\'92t got an idea what it\'92s like when you can\'92t sleep.\'94 \'93Sure.\'94 \'93I can\'92t sleep. That\'92s all. I just can\'92t sleep. What\'92s the use of taking care of yourself all these years when you can\'92t sleep?\'94 \'93It\'92s bad.\'94 \'93You ain\'92t got an idea what it\'92s like, Jerry, when you can\'92t sleep.\'94 \'93Put some water in that,\'94 I said. Well, about eleven o\'92clock Jack passes out and I put him to bed. Finally he\'92s so he can\'92t keep from sleeping. I helped him get his clothes off and got him into bed. \'93You\'92ll sleep all right. Jack,\'94 I said. \'93Sure,\'94 Jack says, \'93I\'92ll sleep now.\'94 \'93Good night, Jack,\'94 I said. \'93Good night, Jerry,\'94 Jack says. \'93You\'92re the only friend I got.\'94 \'93Oh, hell,\'94 I said. \'93You\'92re the only friend I got,\'94 Jack says, \'93the only friend I got.\'94 \'93Go to sleep,\'94 I said. \'93I\'92ll sleep,\'94 Jack says. Downstairs Hogan was sitting at the desk in the office reading the papers. He looked up. \'93Well, you get your boy friend to sleep?\'94 he asks. \'93He\'92s off.\'94 \'93It\'92s better for him than not sleeping,\'94 Hogan said. \'93Sure.\'94 \'93You\'92d have a hell of a time explaining that to these sport writers though,\'94 Hogan said. \'93Well, I\'92m going to bed myself,\'94 I said. \'93Good night,\'94 said Hogan. In the morning I came downstairs about eight o\'92clock and got some breakfast. Hogan had his two customers out in the barn doing exercises. I went out and watched them. \'93One! Two! Three! Four!\'94 Hogan was counting for them. \'93Hello, Jerry,\'94 he said. \'93Is Jack up yet?\'94 \'93No. He\'92s still sleeping.\'94 I went back to my room and packed up to go in to town. About nine-thirty I heard Jack getting up in the next room. When I heard him go downstairs I went down after him. Jack was sitting at the breakfast table. Hogan had come in and was standing beside the table. \'93How do you feel, Jack?\'94 I asked him. \'93Not so bad.\'94 \'93Sleep well?\'94 Hogan asked. \'93I slept all right,\'94 Jack said. \'93I got a thick tongue but I ain\'92t got a head.\'94 \'93Good,\'94 said Hogan. \'93That was good liquor.\'94 \'93Put it on the bill,\'94 Jack says. \'93What time you want to go into town?\'94 Hogan asked. \'93Before lunch,\'94 Jack says. \'93The eleven o\'92clock train.\'94 \'93Sit down, Jerry,\'94 Jack said. Hogan went out. I sat down at the table. Jack was eating a grapefruit. When he\'92d find a seed he\'92d spit it out in the spoon and dump it on the plate. \'93I guess I was pretty stewed last night,\'94 he started. \'93You drank some liquor.\'94 \'93I guess I said a lot of fool things.\'94 \'93You weren\'92t bad.\'94 \'93Where\'92s Hogan?\'94 he asked. He was through with the grapefruit. \'93He\'92s out in front in the office.\'94 \'93What did I say about betting on the fight?\'94 Jack asked. He was holding the spoon and sort of poking at the grapefruit with it. The girl came in with some ham and eggs and took away the grapefruit. \'93Bring me another glass of milk,\'94 Jack said to her. She went out. \'93You said you had fifty grand on Walcott,\'94 I said. \'93That\'92s right,\'94 Jack said. \'93That\'92s a lot of money.\'94 \'93I don\'92t feel too good about it,\'94 Jack said. \'93Something might happen.\'94 \'93No,\'94 Jack said. \'93He wants the title bad. They\'92ll be shooting with him all right.\'94 \'93You can\'92t ever tell.\'94 \'93No. He wants the title. It\'92s worth a lot of money to him.\'94 \'93Fifty grand is a lot of money,\'94 I said. \'93It\'92s business,\'94 said Jack. \'93I can\'92t win. You know I can\'92t win anyway.\'94 \'93As long as you\'92re in there you got a chance.\'94 \'93No,\'94 Jack says. \'93I\'92m all through. It\'92s just business.\'94 \'93How do you feel?\'94 \'93Pretty good,\'94 Jack said. \'93The sleep was what I needed.\'94 \'93You might go good.\'94 \'93I\'92ll give them a good show,\'94 Jack said. After breakfast Jack called up his wife on the long-distance. He was inside the booth telephoning. \'93That\'92s the first time he\'92s called her up since he\'92s out here,\'94 Hogan said. \'93He writes her every day.\'94 \'93Sure,\'94 Hogan says, \'93a letter only costs two cents.\'94 Hogan said good-by to us and Brace, the nigger rubber, drove us down to the train in the cart. \'93Good-by, Mr. Brennan,\'94 Bruce said at the train, \'93I sure hope you knock his can off.\'94 \'93So long,\'94 Jack said. He gave Bruce two dollars. Bruce had worked on him a lot. He looked kind of disappointed. Jack saw me looking at Bruce holding the two dollars. \'93It\'92s all in the bill,\'94 he said. \'93Hogan charged me for the rubbing.\'94 On the train going into town Jack didn\'92t talk. He sat in the corner of the seat with his ticket in his hat-band and looked out of the window. Once he turned and spoke to me. \'93I told the wife I\'92d take a room at the Shelby tonight,\'94 he said. \'93It\'92s just around the corner from the Garden. I can go up to the house tomorrow morning.\'94 \'93That\'92s a good idea,\'94 I said. \'93Your wife ever see you fight, Jack?\'94 \'93No,\'94 Jack says. \'93She never seen me fight.\'94 I thought he must be figuring on taking an awful beating if he doesn\'92t want to go home afterward. In town we took a taxi up to the Shelby. A boy came out and took our bags and we went in to the desk. \'93How much are the rooms?\'94 Jack asked. \'93We only have double rooms,\'94 the clerk says. \'93I can give you a nice double room for ten dollars.\'94 \'93That\'92s too steep.\'94 \'93I can give you a double room for seven dollars.\'94 \'93With a bath?\'94 \'93Certainly.\'94 \'93You might as well bunk with me, Jerry,\'94 Jack says. \'93Oh,\'94 I said, \'93I\'92ll sleep down at my brother-in-law\'92s.\'94 \'93I don\'92t mean for you to pay it,\'94 Jack says. \'93I just want to get my money\'92s worth.\'94 \'93Will you register, please?\'94 the clerk says. He looked at the names. \'93Number 238, Mr. Brennan.\'94 We went up in the elevator. It was a nice big room with two beds and a door opening into a bath-room. \'93This is pretty good,\'94 Jack says. The boy who brought us up pulled up the curtains and brought in our bags. Jack didn\'92t make any move, so I gave the boy a quarter. We washed up and Jack said we better go out and get something to eat. We ate a lunch at Jimmy Hanley\'92s place. Quite a lot of the boys were there. When we were about half through eating, John came in and sat down with us. Jack didn\'92t talk much. \'93How are you on the weight. Jack?\'94 John asked him. Jack was putting away a pretty good lunch. \'93I could make it with my clothes on,\'94 Jack said. He never had to worry about taking off weight. He was a natural welterweight and he\'92d never gotten fat. He\'92d lost weight out at Hogan\'92s. \'93Well, that\'92s one thing you never had to worry about,\'94 John said. \'93That\'92s one thing,\'94 Jack says. We went around to the Garden to weigh in after lunch. The match was made at a hundred fortyseven pounds at three o\'92clock. Jack stepped on the scales with a towel around him. The bar didn\'92t move. Walcott had just weighed and was standing with a lot of people around him. \'93Let\'92s see what you weigh, Jack,\'94 Freedman, Walcott\'92s manager said. \'93All right, weigh him then,\'94 Jack jerked his head toward Walcott. \'93Drop the towel,\'94 Freedman said. \'93What do you make it?\'94 Jack asked the fellows who were weighing. \'93One hundred and forty-three pounds,\'94 the fat man who was weighing said. \'93You\'92re down fine, Jack,\'94 Freedman says. \'93Weigh him,\'94 Jack says. Walcott came over. He was a blond with wide shoulders and arms like a heavyweight. He didn\'92t have much legs. Jack stood about half a head taller than he did. \'93Hello, Jack,\'94 he said. His face was plenty marked up. \'93Hello,\'94 said Jack. \'93How you feel?\'94 \'93Good,\'94 Walcott says. He dropped the towel from around his waist and stood on the scales. He had the widest shoulders and back you ever saw. \'93One hundred and forty-six pounds and twelve ounces.\'94 Walcott stepped off and grinned at Jack. \'93Well,\'94 John says to him, \'93Jack\'92s spotting you about four pounds.\'94 \'93More than that when I come in, kid,\'94 Walcott says. \'93I\'92m going to go and eat now.\'94 We went back and Jack got dressed. \'93He\'92s a pretty tough-looking boy,\'94 Jack says to me. \'93He looks as though he\'92d been hit plenty of times.\'94 \'93Oh, yes,\'94 Jack says. \'93He ain\'92t hard to hit.\'94 \'93Where are you going?\'94 John asked when Jack was dressed. \'93Back to the hotel,\'94 Jack says. \'93You looked after everything?\'94 \'93Yes,\'94 John says. \'93It\'92s all looked after.\'94 \'93I\'92m going to lie down a while,\'94 Jack says. \'93I\'92ll come around for you about a quarter to seven and we\'92ll go and eat.\'94 \'93All right.\'94 Up at the hotel Jack took off his shoes and his coat and lay down for a while. I wrote a letter. I looked over a couple of times and Jack wasn\'92t sleeping. He was lying perfectly still but every once in a while his eyes would open. Finally he sits up. \'93Want to play some cribbage, Jerry?\'94 he says. \'93Sure,\'94 I said. He went over to his suitcase and got out the cards and the cribbage board. We played cribbage and he won three dollars off me. John knocked at the door and came in. \'93Want to play some cribbage, John?\'94 Jack asked him. John put his hat down on the table. It was all wet. His coat was wet too. \'93Is it raining?\'94 Jack asks. \'93It\'92s pouring,\'94 John says. \'93The taxi I had got tied up in the traffic and I got out and walked.\'94 \'93Come on, play some cribbage,\'94 Jack says. \'93You ought to go and eat.\'94 \'93No,\'94 says Jack. \'93I don\'92t want to eat yet.\'94 So they played cribbage for about half an hour and Jack won a dollar and a half off him. \'93Well, I suppose we got to go eat,\'94 Jack says. He went to the window and looked out. \'93Is it still raining?\'94 \'93Yes.\'94 \'93Let\'92s eat in the hotel,\'94 John says. \'93All right,\'94 Jack says, \'93I\'92ll play you once more to see who pays for the meal.\'94 After a little while Jack gets up and says, \'93You buy the meal, John,\'94 and we went downstairs and ate in the big dining-room. After we ate we went upstairs and Jack played cribbage with John again and won two dollars and a half off him. Jack was feeling pretty good. John had a bag with him with all his stuff in it. Jack took off his shirt and collar and put on a jersey and a sweater, so he wouldn\'92t catch cold when he came out, and put his ring clothes and his bathrobe in a bag. \'93You all ready?\'94 John asks him. \'93I\'92ll call up and have them get a taxi.\'94 Pretty soon the telephone rang and they said the taxi was waiting. We rode down in the elevator and went out through the lobby, and got in a taxi and rode around to the Garden. It was raining hard but there was a lot of people outside on the streets. The Garden was sold out. As we came in on our way to the dressing-room I saw how full it was. It looked like half a mile down to the ring. It was all dark. Just the lights over the ring. \'93It\'92s a good thing, with this rain, they didn\'92t try and pull this fight in the ball park,\'94 John said. \'93They got a good crowd,\'94 Jack says. \'93This is a fight that would draw a lot more than the Garden could hold.\'94 \'93You can\'92t tell about the weather,\'94 Jack says. John came to the door of the dressing-room and poked his head in. Jack was sitting there with his bathrobe on, he had his arms folded and was looking at the floor. John had a couple of handlers with him. They looked over his shoulder. Jack looked up. \'93Is he in?\'94 he asked. \'93He\'92s just gone down,\'94 John said. We started down. Walcott was just getting into the ring. The crowd gave him a big hand. He climbed through between the ropes and put his two fists together and smiled, and shook them at the crowd, first at one side of the ring, then at the other, and then sat down. Jack got a good hand coming down through the crowd. Jack is Irish and the Irish always get a pretty good hand. An Irishman don\'92t draw in New York like a Jew or an Italian but they always get a good hand. Jack climbed up and bent down to go through the ropes and Walcott came over from his corner and pushed the rope down for Jack to go through. The crowd thought that was wonderful. Walcott put his hand on Jack\'92s shoulder and they stood there just for a second. \'93So you\'92re going to be one of these popular champions,\'94 Jack says to him. \'93Take your goddam hand off my shoulder.\'94 \'93Be yourself,\'94 Walcott says. This is all great for the crowd. How gentlemanly the boys are before the fight. How they wish each other luck. Solly Freedman came over to our comer while Jack is bandaging his hands and John is over in Walcott\'92s corner. Jack puts his thumb through the slit in the bandage and then wrapped his hand nice and smooth. I taped it around the wrist and twice across the knuckles. \'93Hey,\'94 Freedman says. \'93Where do you get all that tape?\'94 \'93Feel of it,\'94 Jack says. \'93It\'92s soft, ain\'92t it? Don\'92t be a hick.\'94 Freedman stands there all the time while Jack bandages the other hand, and one of the boys that\'92s going to handle him brings the gloves and I pull them on and work them around. \'93Say, Freedman,\'94 Jack asks, \'93what nationality is this Walcott?\'94 \'93I don\'92t know,\'94 Solly says. \'93He\'92s some sort of a Dane.\'94 \'93He\'92s a Bohemian,\'94 the lad who brought the gloves said. The referee called them out to the center of the ring and Jack walks out. Walcott comes out smiling. They met and the referee put his arm on each of their shoulders. \'93Hello, popularity,\'94 Jack says to Walcott. \'93Be yourself.\'94 \'93What do you call yourself \'91Walcott\'92 for?\'94 Jack says. \'93Didn\'92t you know he was a nigger?\'94 \'93Listen\'97\'94 says the referee, and he gives them the same old line. Once Walcott interrupts him. He grabs Jack\'92s arm and says, \'93Can I hit when he\'92s got me like this?\'94 \'93Keep your hands off me,\'94 Jack says. \'93There ain\'92t no moving-pictures of this.\'94 They went back to their corners. I lifted the bathrobe off Jack and he leaned on the ropes and flexed his knees a couple of times and scuffed his shoes in the rosin. The gong rang and Jack turned quick and went out. Walcott came toward him and they touched gloves and as soon as Walcott dropped his hands Jack jumped his left into his face twice. There wasn\'92t anybody ever boxed better than Jack. Walcott was after him, going forward all the time with his chin on his chest. He\'92s a hooker and he carries his hands pretty low. All he knows is to get in there and sock. But every time he gets in there close. Jack has the left hand in his face. It\'92s just as though it\'92s automatic. Jack just raises the left hand up and it\'92s in Walcott\'92s face. Three or four times Jack brings the right over but Walcott gets it on the shoulder or high up on the head. He\'92s just like all these hookers. The only thing he\'92s afraid of is another one of the same kind. He\'92s covered everywhere you can hurt him. He don\'92t care about a left hand in his face. After about four rounds Jack has him bleeding bad and his face all cut up, but every time Walcott\'92s got in close he\'92s socked so hard he\'92s got two big red patches on both sides just below Jack\'92s ribs. Every time he gets in close, Jack ties him up, then gets one hand loose and uppercuts him, but when Walcott gets his hands loose he socks Jack in the body so they can hear it outside in the street. He\'92s a socker. It goes along like that for three rounds more. They don\'92t talk any. They\'92re working all the time. We worked over Jack plenty too, in between the rounds. He don\'92t look good at all but he never does much work in the ring. He don\'92t move around much and that left hand is just automatic. It\'92s just like it was connected with Walcott\'92s face and Jack just had to wish it in every time. Jack is always calm in close and he doesn\'92t waste any juice. He knows everything about working in close too and he\'92s getting away with a lot of stuff. While they were in our corner I watched him tie Walcott up, get his right hand loose, turn it and come up with an uppercut that got Walcott\'92s nose with the heel of the glove. Walcott was bleeding bad and leaned his nose on Jack\'92s shoulder so as to give Jack some of it too, and Jack sort of lifted his shoulder sharp and caught him against the nose, and then brought down the right hand and did the same thing again. Walcott was sore as hell. By the time they\'92d gone five rounds he hated Jack\'92s guts. Jack wasn\'92t sore; that is, he wasn\'92t any sorer than he always was. He certainly did used to make the fellows he fought hate boxing. That was why he hated Kid Lewis so. He never got the Kid\'92s goat. Kid Lewis always had about three new dirty things Jack couldn\'92t do. Jack was as safe as a church all the time he was in there, as long as he was strong. He certainly was treating Walcott rough. The funny thing was it looked as though Jack was an open classic boxer. That was because he had all that stuff too. After the seventh round Jack says, \'93My left\'92s getting heavy.\'94 From then he started to take a beating. It didn\'92t show at first. But instead of him running the fight it was Walcott was running it, instead of being safe all the time now he was in trouble. He couldn\'92t keep him out with the left hand now. It looked as though it was the same as ever, only now instead of Walcott\'92s punches just missing him they were just hitting him. He took an awful beating in the body. \'93What\'92s the round?\'94 Jack asked. \'93The eleventh.\'94 \'93I can\'92t stay,\'94 Jack says. \'93My legs are going bad.\'94 Walcott had been just hitting him for a long time. It was like a baseball catcher pulls the ball and takes some of the shock off. From now on Walcott commenced to land solid. He certainly was a socking-machine. Jack was just trying to block everything now. It didn\'92t show what an awful beating he was taking. In between the rounds I worked on his legs. The muscles would flutter under my hands all the time I was rubbing them. He was sick as hell. \'93How\'92s it go?\'94 he asked John, turning around, his face all swollen. \'93It\'92s his fight.\'94 \'93I think I can last,\'94 Jack says. \'93I don\'92t want this bohunk to stop me.\'94 It was going just the way he thought it would. He knew he couldn\'92t beat Walcott. He wasn\'92t strong any more. He was all right though. His money was all right and now he wanted to finish it off right to please himself. He didn\'92t want to be knocked out. The gong rang and we pushed him out. He went out slow. Walcott came right out after him. Jack put the left in his face and Walcott took it, came in under it and started working on Jack\'92s body. Jack tried to tie him up and it was just like trying to hold on to a buzz-saw. Jack broke away from it and missed with the right. Walcott clipped him with a left hook and Jack went down. He went down on his hands and knees and looked at us. The referee started counting. Jack was watching us and shaking his head. At eight John motioned to him. You couldn\'92t hear on account of the crowd. Jack got up. The referee had been holding Walcott back with one arm while he counted. When Jack was on his feet Walcott started toward him. \'93Watch yourself, Jimmy,\'94 I heard Solly Freedman yell to him. Walcott came up to Jack looking at him. Jack stuck the left hand at him. Walcott just shook his head. He backed Jack up against the ropes, measured him and then hooked the left very light to the side of Jack\'92s head and socked the right into the body as hard as he could sock, just as low as he could get it. He must have hit him five inches below the belt. I thought the eyes would come out of Jack\'92s head. They stuck way out. His mouth come open. The referee grabbed Walcott. Jack stepped forward. If he went down there went fifty thousand bucks. He walked as though all his insides were going to fall out. \'93It wasn\'92t low,\'94 he said. \'93It was a accident.\'94 The crowd were yelling so you couldn\'92t hear anything. \'93I\'92m all right,\'94 Jack says. They were right in front of us. The referee looks at John and then he shakes his head. \'93Come on, you polak son-of-a-bitch,\'94 Jack says to Walcott. John was hanging onto the ropes. He had the towel ready to chuck in. Jack was standing just a little way out from the ropes. He took a step forward. I saw the sweat come out on his face like somebody had squeezed it and a big drop went down his nose. \'93Come on and fight,\'94 Jack says to Walcott. The referee looked at John and waved Walcott on. \'93Go in there, you slob,\'94 he says. Walcott went in. He didn\'92t know what to do either. He never thought Jack could have stood it. Jack put the left in his face. There was such a hell of a lot of yelling going on. They were right in front of us. Walcott hit him twice. Jack\'92s face was the worst thing I ever saw\'97the look on it! He was holding himself and all his body together and it all showed on his face. All the time he was thinking and holding his body in where it was busted. Then he started to sock. His face looked awful all the time. He started to sock with his hands low down by his side, swinging at Walcott. Walcott covered up and Jack was swinging wild at Walcott\'92s head. Then he swung the left and it hit Walcott in the groin and the right hit Walcott right bang where he\'92d hit Jack. Way low below the belt. Walcott went down and grabbed himself there and rolled and twisted around. The referee grabbed Jack and pushed him toward his corner. John jumps into the ring. There was all this yelling going on. The referee was talking with the judges and then the announcer got into the ring with the megaphone and says, \'93Walcott on a foul.\'94 The referee is talking to John and he says, \'93What could I do? Jack wouldn\'92t take the foul. Then when he\'92s groggy he fouls him.\'94 \'93He\'92d lost it anyway,\'94 John says. Jack\'92s sitting on the chair. I\'92ve got his gloves off and he\'92s holding himself in down there with both hands. When he\'92s got something supporting it his face doesn\'92t look so bad. \'93Go over and say you\'92re sorry,\'94 John says into his ear. \'93It\'92ll look good.\'94 Jack stands up and the sweat comes out all over his face. I put the bathrobe around him and he holds himself in with one hand under the bathrobe and goes across the ring. They\'92ve picked Walcott up and they\'92re working on him. There\'92re a lot of people in Walcott\'92s corner. Nobody speaks to Jack. He leans over Walcott. \'93I\'92m sorry,\'94 Jack says. \'93I didn\'92t mean to foul you.\'94 Walcott doesn\'92t say anything. He looks too damned sick. \'93Well, you\'92re the champion now,\'94 Jack says to him. \'93I hope you get a hell of a lot of fun out of it.\'94 \'93Leave the kid alone,\'94 Solly Freedman says. \'93Hello, Solly,\'94 Jack says. \'93I\'92m sorry I fouled your boy.\'94 Freedman just looks at him. Jack went to his corner walking that funny jerky way and we got him down through the ropes and through the reporters\'92 tables and out down the aisle. A lot of people want to slap Jack on the back. He goes out through all that mob in his bathrobe to the dressing-room. It\'92s a popular win for Walcott. That\'92s the way the money was bet in the Garden. Once we got inside the dressing-room Jack lay down and shut his eyes. \'93We want to get to the hotel and get a doctor,\'94 John says. \'93I\'92m all busted inside,\'94 Jack says. \'93I\'92m sorry as hell. Jack,\'94 John says. \'93It\'92s all right,\'94 Jack says. He lies there with his eyes shut. \'93They certainly tried a nice double-cross,\'94 John said. \'93Your friends Morgan and Steinfelt,\'94 Jack said. \'93You got nice friends.\'94 He lies there, his eyes are open now. His face has still got that awful drawn look. \'93It\'92s funny how fast you can think when it means that much money,\'94 Jack says. \'93You\'92re some boy, Jack,\'94 John says. \'93No,\'94 Jack says. \'93It was nothing.\'94 A Simple Enquiry OUTSIDE, THE SNOW WAS HIGHER THAN the window. The sunlight came in through the window and shone on a map on the pineboard wall of the hut. The sun was high and the light came in over the top of the snow. A trench had been cut along the open side of the hut, and each clear day the sun, shining on the wall, reflected heat against the snow and widened the trench. It was late March. The major sat at a table against the wall. His adjutant sat at another table. Around the major\'92s eyes were two white circles where his snow-glasses had protected his face from the sun on the snow. The rest of his face had been burned and then tanned and then burned through the tan. His nose was swollen and there were edges of loose skin where blisters had been. While he worked at the papers he put the fingers of his left hand into a saucer of oil and then spread the oil over his face, touching it very gently with the tips of his fingers. He was very careful to drain his fingers on the edge of the saucer so there was only a film of oil on them, and after he had stroked his forehead and his cheeks, he stroked his nose very delicately between his fingers. When he had finished he stood up, took the saucer of oil and went into the small room of the hut where he slept. \'93I\'92m going to take a little sleep,\'94 he said to the adjutant. In that army an adjutant is not a commissioned officer. \'93You will finish up.\'94 \'93Yes, signor maggiore,\'94 the adjutant answered. He leaned back in his chair and yawned. He took a paper-covered book out of the pocket of his coat and opened it; then laid it down on the table and lit his pipe. He leaned forward on the table to read and puffed at his pipe. Then he closed the book and put it back in his pocket. He had too much paper-work to get through. He could not enjoy reading until it was done. Outside, the sun went behind a mountain and there was no more light on the wall of the hut. A soldier came in and put some pine branches, chopped into irregular lengths, into the stove. \'93Be soft, Pinin,\'94 the adjutant said to him. \'93The major is sleeping.\'94 Pinin was the major\'92s orderly. He was a dark-faced boy, and he fixed the stove, putting the pine wood in carefully, shut the door, and went into the back of the hut again. The adjutant went on with his papers. \'93Tonani,\'94 the major called. \'93Signor maggiore?\'94 \'93Send Pinin in to me.\'94 \'93Pinin!\'94 the adjutant called. Pinin came into the room. \'93The major wants you,\'94 the adjutant said. Pinin walked across the main room of the hut toward the major\'92s door. He knocked on the halfopened door. \'93Signor maggiore?\'94 \'93Come in,\'94 the adjutant heard the major say, \'93and shut the door.\'94 Inside the room the major lay on his bunk. Pinin stood beside the bunk. The major lay with his head on the rucksack that he had stuffed with spare clothing to make a pillow. His long, burned, oiled face looked at Pinin. His hands lay on the blankets. \'93You are nineteen?\'94 he asked. \'93Yes, signor maggiore.\'94 \'93You have ever been in love?\'94 \'93How do you mean, signor maggiore?\'94 \'93In love\'97with a girl?\'94 \'93I have been with girls.\'94 \'93I did not ask that. I asked if you had been in love\'97with a girl.\'94 \'93Yes, signor maggiore.\'94 \'93You are in love with this girl now? You don\'92t write her. I read all your letters.\'94 \'93I am in love with her,\'94 Pinin said, \'93but I do not write her.\'94 \'93You are sure of this?\'94 \'93I am sure.\'94 \'93Tonani,\'94 the major said in the same tone of voice, \'93can you hear me talking?\'94 There was no answer from the next room. \'93He can not hear,\'94 the major said. \'93And you are quite sure that you love a girl?\'94 \'93I am sure.\'94 \'93And,\'94 the major looked at him quickly, \'93that you are not corrupt?\'94 \'93I don\'92t know what you mean, corrupt.\'94 \'93All right,\'94 the major said. \'93You needn\'92t be superior.\'94 Pinin looked at the floor. The major looked at his brown face, down and up him, and at his hands. Then he went on, not smiling, \'93And you don\'92t really want\'97\'94 the major paused. Pinin looked at the floor. \'93That your great desire isn\'92t really\'97\'94 Pinin looked at the floor. The major leaned his head back on the rucksack and smiled. He was really relieved: life in the army was too complicated. \'93You\'92re a good boy,\'94 he said. \'93You\'92re a good boy, Pinin. But don\'92t be superior and be careful some one else doesn\'92t come along and take you.\'94 Pinin stood still beside the bunk. \'93Don\'92t be afraid,\'94 the major said. His hands were folded on the blankets. \'93I won\'92t touch you. You can go back to your platoon if you like. But you had better stay on as my servant. You\'92ve less chance of being killed.\'94 \'93Do you want anything of me, signer maggiore?\'94 \'93No,\'94 the major said. \'93Go on and get on with whatever you were doing. Leave the door open when you go out.\'94 Pinin went out, leaving the door open. The adjutant looked up at him as he walked awkwardly across the room and out the door. Pinin was flushed and moved differently than he had moved when he brought in the wood for the fire. The adjutant looked after him and smiled. Pinin came in with more wood for the stove. The major, lying on his bunk, looking at his cloth-covered helmet and his snowglasses that hung from a nail on the wall, heard him walk across the floor. The little devil, he thought, I wonder if he lied to me. Ten Indians AFTER ONE FOURTH OF JULY, NICK, DRIVing home late from town in the big wagon with Joe Garner and his family, passed nine drunken Indians along the road. He remembered there were nine because Joe Garner, driving along in the dusk, pulled up the horses, jumped down into the road and dragged an Indian out of the wheel rut. The Indian had been asleep, face down in the sand. Joe dragged him into bushes and got back up on the wagon-box. \'93That makes nine of them,\'94 Joe said, \'93just between here and the edge of town.\'94 \'93Them Indians,\'94 said Mrs. Garner. Nick was on the back seat with the two Garner boys. He was looking out from the back seat to see the Indian where Joe had dragged him alongside of the road. \'93Was it Billy Tabeshaw?\'94 Carl asked. \'93No.\'94 \'93His pants looked mighty like Billy.\'94 \'93All Indians wear the same kind of pants.\'94 \'93I didn\'92t see him at all,\'94 Frank said. \'93Pa was down into the road and back up again before I seen a thing. I thought he was killing a snake.\'94 \'93Plenty of Indians\'92ll kill snakes tonight, I guess,\'94 Joe Garner said. \'93Them Indians,\'94 said Mrs. Garner. They drove along. The road turned off from the main highway and went up into the hills. It was hard pulling for the horses and the boys got down and walked. The road was sandy. Nick looked back from the top of the hill by the schoolhouse. He saw the lights of Petoskey and, off across Little Traverse Bay, the lights of Harbour Springs. They climbed back in the wagon again. \'93They ought to put some gravel on that stretch,\'94 Joe Garner said. The wagon went along the road through the woods. Joe and Mrs. Gamer sat close together on the front seat. Nick sat between the two boys. The road came out into a clearing. \'93Right here was where Pa ran over the skunk.\'94 \'93It was further on.\'94 \'93It don\'92t make no difference where it was,\'94 Joe said without turning his head. \'93One place is just as good as another to run over a skunk.\'94 \'93I saw two skunks last night,\'94 Nick said. \'93Where?\'94 \'93Down by the lake. They were looking for dead fish along the beach.\'94 \'93They were coons probably,\'94 Carl said. \'93They were skunks. I guess I know skunks.\'94 \'93You ought to,\'94 Carl said. \'93You got an Indian girl.\'94 \'93Stop talking that way. Carl,\'94 said Mrs. Garner. \'93Well, they smell about the same.\'94 Joe Garner laughed. \'93You stop laughing, Joe,\'94 Mrs. Garner said. \'93I won\'92t have Carl talk that way.\'94 \'93Have you got an Indian girl, Nickie?\'94 Joe asked. \'93No.\'94 \'93He has too, Pa,\'94 Frank said. \'93Prudence Mitchell\'92s his girl.\'94 \'93She\'92s not.\'94 \'93He goes to see her every day.\'94 \'93I don\'92t.\'94 Nick, sitting between the two boys in the dark, felt hollow and happy inside himself to be teased about Prudence Mitchell. \'93She ain\'92t my girl,\'94 he said. \'93Listen to him,\'94 said Carl. \'93I see them together every day.\'94 \'93Carl can\'92t get a girl,\'94 his mother said, \'93not even a squaw.\'94 Carl was quiet. \'93Carl ain\'92t no good with girls,\'94 Frank said. \'93You shut up.\'94 \'93You\'92re all right, Carl,\'94 Joe Garner said. \'93Girls never got a man anywhere. Look at your pa.\'94 \'93Yes, that\'92s what you would say,\'94 Mrs. Garner moved close to Joe as the wagon jolted. \'93Well, you had plenty of girls in your time.\'94 \'93I\'92ll bet Pa wouldn\'92t ever have had a squaw for a girl.\'94 \'93Don\'92t you think it,\'94 Joe said. \'93You better watch out to keep Prudie, Nick.\'94 His wife whispered to him and Joe laughed. \'93What you laughing at?\'94 asked Frank. \'93Don\'92t you say it. Garner,\'94 his wife warned. Joe laughed again. \'93Nickie can have Prudence,\'94 Joe Garner said. \'93I got a good girl.\'94 \'93That\'92s the way to talk,\'94 Mrs. Garner said. The horses were pulling heavily in the sand. Joe reached out in the dark with the whip. \'93Come on, pull into it. You\'92ll have to pull harder than this tomorrow.\'94 They trotted down the long hill, the wagon jolting. At the farmhouse everybody got down. Mrs. Garner unlocked the door, went inside, and came out with a lamp in her hand. Carl and Nick unloaded the things from the back of the wagon. Frank sat on the front seat to drive to the barn and put up the horses. Nick went up the steps and opened the kitchen door. Mrs. Garner was building a fire in the stove. She turned from pouring kerosene on the wood. \'93Good-by, Mrs. Garner,\'94 Nick said. \'93Thanks for taking me.\'94 \'93Oh shucks, Nickie.\'94 \'93I had a wonderful time.\'94 \'93We like to have you. Won\'92t you stay and eat some supper?\'94 \'93I better go. I think Dad probably waited for me.\'94 \'93Well, get along then. Send Carl up to the house, will you?\'94 \'93All right.\'94 \'93Good-night, Nickie.\'94 \'93Good-night, Mrs. Garner.\'94 Nick went out the farmyard and down to the barn. Joe and Frank were milking. \'93Good-night,\'94 Nick said. \'93I had a swell time.\'94 \'93Good-night, Nick,\'94 Joe Garner called. \'93Aren\'92t you going to stay and eat?\'94 \'93No, I can\'92t. Will you tell Carl his mother wants him?\'94 \'93All right. Good-night, Nickie.\'94 Nick walked barefoot along the path through the meadow below the barn. The path was smooth and the dew was cool on his bare feet. He climbed a fence at the end of the meadow, went down through a ravine, his feet wet in the swamp mud, and then climbed up through the dry beech woods until he saw the lights of the cottage. He climbed over the fence and walked around to the front porch. Through the window he saw his father sitting by the table, reading in the light from the big lamp. Nick opened the door and went in. \'93Well, Nickie,\'94 his father said, \'93was it a good day?\'94 \'93I had a swell time. Dad. It was a swell Fourth of July.\'94 \'93Are you hungry?\'94 \'93You bet.\'94 \'93What did you do with your shoes?\'94 \'93I left them in the wagon at Garner\'92s.\'94 \'93Come on out to the kitchen.\'94 Nick\'92s father went ahead with the lamp. He stopped and lifted the lid of the ice-box. Nick went on into the kitchen. His father brought in a piece of cold chicken on a plate and a pitcher of milk and put them on the table before Nick. He put down the lamp. \'93There\'92s some pie too,\'94 he said. \'93Will that hold you?\'94 \'93It\'92s grand.\'94 His father sat down in a chair beside the oil-cloth-covered table. He made a big shadow on the kitchen wall. \'93Who won the ball game?\'94 \'93Petoskey. Five to three.\'94 His father sat watching him eat and filled his glass from the milk-pitcher. Nick drank and wiped his mouth on his napkin. His father reached over to the shelf for the pie. He cut Nick a big piece. It was huckleberry pie. \'93What did you do, Dad?\'94 \'93I went out fishing in the morning.\'94 \'93What did you get?\'94 \'93Only perch.\'94 His father sat watching Nick eat the pie. \'93What did you do this afternoon?\'94 Nick asked. \'93I went for a walk up by the Indian camp.\'94 \'93Did you see anybody?\'94 \'93The Indians were all in town getting drunk.\'94 \'93Didn\'92t you see anybody at all?\'94 \'93I saw your friend, Prudie.\'94 \'93Where was she?\'94 \'93She was in the woods with Frank Washburn. I ran onto them. They were having quite a time.\'94 His father was not looking at him. \'93What were they doing?\'94 \'93I didn\'92t stay to find out.\'94 \'93Tell me what they were doing.\'94 \'93I don\'92t know,\'94 his father said. \'93I just heard them threshing around.\'94 \'93How did you know it was them?\'94 \'93I saw them.\'94 \'93I thought you said you didn\'92t see them.\'94 \'93Oh, yes, I saw them.\'94 \'93Who was it with her?\'94 Nick asked. \'93Frank Washbum.\'94 \'93Were they\'97were they\'97\'94 \'93Were they what?\'94 \'93Were they happy?\'94 \'93I guess so.\'94 His father got up from the table and went out the kitchen screen door. When he came back Nick was looking at his plate. He had been crying. \'93Have some more?\'94 His father picked up the knife to cut the pie. \'93No.\'94 said Nick. \'93You better have another piece\'94 \'93No, I don\'92t want any.\'94 His father cleared off the table. \'93Where were they in the woods?\'94 Nick asked. \'93Up back of the camp.\'94 Nick looked at his plate. His father said, \'93You better go to bed, Nick.\'94 \'93All right.\'94 Nick went into his room, undressed, and got into bed. He heard his father moving around in the living room. Nick lay in the bed with his face in the pillow. \'93My heart\'92s broken,\'94 he thought. \'93If I feel this way my heart must be broken.\'94 After a while he heard his father blow out the lamp and go into his own room. He heard a wind come up in the trees outside and felt it come in cool through the screen. He lay for a long time with his face in the pillow, and after a while he forgot to think about Prudence and finally he went to sleep. When he awoke in the night he heard the wind in the hemlock trees outside the cottage and the waves of the lake coming in on the shore, and he went back to sleep. In the morning there was a big wind blowing and the waves were running high up on the beach and he was awake a long time before he remembered that his heart was broken. A Canary for One THE TRAIN PASSED VERY QUICKLY A LONG , red stone house with a garden and four thick palm-trees with tables under them in the shade. On the other side was the sea. Then there was a cutting through red stone and clay, and the sea was only occasionally and far below against rocks. \'93I bought him in Palermo,\'94 the American lady said. \'93We only had an hour ashore and it was Sunday morning. The man wanted to be paid in dollars and I gave him a dollar and a half. He really sings very beautifully.\'94 It was very hot in the train and it was very hot in the lit salon compartment. There was no breeze came through the open window. The American lady pulled the window-blind down and there was no more sea, even occasionally. On the other side there was glass, then the corridor, then an open window, and outside the window were dusty trees and an oiled road and flat fields of grapes, with gray-stone hills behind them. There was smoke from many tall chimneys\'97coming into Marseilles, and the train slowed down and followed one track through many others into the station. The train stayed twenty-five minutes in the station at Marseilles and the American lady bought a copy of The Daily Mail and a half-bottle of Evian water. She walked a little way along the station platform, but she stayed near the steps of the car because at Cannes, where it stopped for twelve minutes, the train had left with no signal of departure and she had gotten on only just in time. The American lady was a little deaf and she was afraid that perhaps signals of departure were given and that she did not hear them. The train left the station in Marseilles and there was not only the switchyards and the factory smoke but, looking back, the town of Marseilles and the harbor with stone hills behind it and the last of the sun on the water. As it was getting dark the train passed a farmhouse burning in a field. Motorcars were stopped along the road and bedding and things from inside the farmhouse were spread in the field. Many people were watching the house burn. After it was dark the train was in Avignon. People got on and off. At the news-stand Frenchmen, returning to Paris, bought that day\'92s French papers. On the station platform were negro soldiers. They wore brown uniforms and were tall and their faces shone, close under the electric light. Their faces were very black and they were too tall to stare. The train left Avignon station with the negroes standing there. A short white sergeant was with them. Inside the lit salon compartment the porter had pulled down the three beds from inside the wall and prepared them for sleeping. In the night the American lady lay without sleeping because the train was a rapide and went very fast and she was afraid of the speed in the night. The American lady\'92s bed was the one next to the window. The canary from Palermo, a cloth spread over his cage, was out of the draft in the corridor that went into the compartment wash-room. There was a blue light outside the compartment, and all night the train went very fast and the American lady lay awake and waited for a wreck. In the morning the train was near Paris, and after the American lady had come out from the washroom, looking very wholesome and middle-aged and American in spite of not having slept, and had taken the cloth off the birdcage and hung the cage in the sun, she went back to the restaurant-car for breakfast. When she came back to the lit salon compartment again, the beds had been pushed back into the wall and made into seats, the canary was shaking his feathers in the sunlight that came through the open window, and the train was much nearer Paris. \'93He loves the sun,\'94 the American lady said. \'93He\'92ll sing now in a little while.\'94 The canary shook his feathers and pecked into them. \'93I\'92ve always loved birds,\'94 the American lady said. \'93I\'92m taking him home to my little girl. There\'97he\'92s singing now.\'94 The canary chirped and the feathers on his throats stood out, then he dropped his bill and pecked into his feathers again. The train crossed a river and passed through a very carefully tended forest. The train passed through many outside of Paris towns. There were tram-cars in the towns and big advertisements for the Belle Jardini\'e8re and Dubonnet and Pernod on the walls toward the train. All that the train passed through looked as though it were before breakfast. For several minutes I had not listened to the American lady, who was talking to my wife. \'93Is your husband American too?\'94 asked the lady. \'93Yes,\'94 said my wife. \'93We\'92re both Americans.\'94 \'93I thought you were English.\'94 \'93Oh, no.\'94 \'93Perhaps that was because I wore braces,\'94 I said. I had started to say suspenders and changed it to braces in the mouth, to keep my English character. The American lady did not hear. She was really quite deaf; she read lips, and I had not looked toward her. I had looked out of the window. She went on talking to my wife. \'93I\'92m so glad you\'92re Americans. American men make the best husbands,\'94 the American lady was saying. \'93That was why we left the Continent, you know. My daughter fell in love with a man in Vevey.\'94 She stopped. \'93They were simply madly in love.\'94 She stopped again. \'93I took her away, of course.\'94 \'93Did she get over it?\'94 asked my wife. \'93I don\'92t think so,\'94 said the American lady. \'93She wouldn\'92t eat anything and she wouldn\'92t sleep at all. I\'92ve tried so very hard, but she doesn\'92t seem to take an interest in anything. She doesn\'92t care about things. I couldn\'92t have her marrying a foreigner.\'94 She paused. \'93Some one, a very good friend, told me once, \'91No foreigner can make an American girl a good husband.\'92\'94 \'93No,\'94 said my wife, \'93I suppose not.\'94 The American lady admired my wife\'92s travelling-coat, and it turned out that the American lady had bought her own clothes for twenty years now from the same maison de couture in the Rue Saint Honor\'e9. They had her measurements, and a vendeuse who knew her and her tastes picked the dresses out for her and they were sent to America. They came to the post-office near where she lived up-town in New York, and the duty was never exorbitant because they opened the dresses there in the postoffice to appraise them and they were always very simple-looking and with no gold lace nor ornaments that would make the dresses look expensive. Before the present vendeuse, named Th\'e9r\'e8se, there had been another vendeuse, named Am\'e9lie. Altogether there had only been these two in the twenty years. It had always been the same couturier. Prices, however, had gone up. The exchange, though, equalized that. They had her daughter\'92s measurements now too. She was grown up and there was not much chance of their changing now. The train was now coming into Paris. The fortifications were levelled but grass had not grown. There were many cars standing on tracks\'97brown wooden restaurant-cars and brown wooden sleeping-cars that would go to Italy at five o\'92clock that night, if that train still left at five; the cars were marked Paris-Rome, and cars, with seats on the roofs, that went back and forth to the suburbs with, at certain hours, people in all the seats and on the roofs, if that were the way it were still done, and passing were the white walls and many windows of houses. Nothing had eaten any breakfast. \'93Americans make the best husbands,\'94 the American lady said to my wife. I was getting down the bags. \'93American men are the only men in the world to marry.\'94 \'93How long ago did you leave Vevey?\'94 asked my wife. \'93Two years ago this fall. It\'92s her, you know, that I\'92m taking the canary to.\'94 \'93Was the man your daughter was in love with a Swiss?\'94 \'93Yes,\'94 said the American lady. \'93He was from a very good family in Vevey. He was going to be an engineer. They met there in Vevey. They used to go on long walks together.\'94 \'93I know Vevey,\'94 said my wife. \'93We were there on our honeymoon.\'94 \'93Were you really? That must have been lovely. I had no idea, of course, that she\'92d fall in love with him.\'94 \'93It was a very lovely place,\'94 said my wife. \'93Yes,\'94 said the American lady. \'93Isn\'92t it lovely? Where did you stop there?\'94 \'93We stayed at the Trois Couronnes,\'94 said my wife. \'93It\'92s such a fine old hotel,\'94 said the American lady. \'93Yes,\'94 said my wife. \'93We had a very fine room and in the fall the country was lovely.\'94 \'93Were you there in the fall?\'94 \'93Yes,\'94 said my wife. We were passing three cars that had been in a wreck. They were splintered open and the roofs sagged in. \'93Look,\'94 I said. \'93There\'92s been a wreck.\'94 The American lady looked and saw the last car. \'93I was afraid of just that all night,\'94 she said. \'93I have terrific presentiments about things sometimes. I\'92ll never travel on a rapide again at night. There must be other comfortable trains that don\'92t go so fast.\'94 Then the train was in the dark of the Gare de Lyons, and then stopped and porters came up to the windows. I handed bags through the windows, and we were out on the dim longness of the platform, and the American lady put herself in charge of one of three men from Cook\'92s who said: \'93Just a moment, madame, and I\'92ll look for your name.\'94 The porter brought a truck and piled on the baggage, and my wife said good-by and I said goodby to the American lady, whose name had been found by the man from Cook\'92s on a typewritten page in a sheaf of typewritten pages which he replaced in his pocket. We followed the porter with the truck down the long cement platform beside the train. At the end was a gate and a man took the tickets. We were returning to Paris to set up separate residences. An Alpine Idyll IT WAS HOT COMING DOWN INTO THE VAL ley even in the early morning. The sun melted the snow from the skis we were carrying and dried the wood. It was spring in the valley but the sun was very hot. We came along the road into Galtur carrying our skis and rucksacks. As we passed the churchyard a burial was just over. I said, \'93Gr\'fcss Gott,\'94 to the priest as he walked past us coming out of the churchyard. The priest bowed. \'93It\'92s funny a priest never speaks to you,\'94 John said. \'93You\'92d think they\'92d like to say \'91Gr\'fcss Gott.\'92\'94 \'93They never answer,\'94 John said. We stopped in the road and watched the sexton shovelling in the new earth. A peasant with a black beard and high leather boots stood beside the grave. The sexton stopped shovelling and straightened his back. The peasant in the high boots took the spade from the sexton and went on filling in the grave\'97spreading the earth evenly as a man spreading manure in a garden. In the bright May morning the grave-filling looked unreal. I could not imagine any one being dead. \'93Imagine being buried on a day like this,\'94 I said to John. \'93I wouldn\'92t like it.\'94 \'93Well,\'94 I said, \'93we don\'92t have to do it.\'94 We went on up the road past the houses of the town to the inn. We had been skiing in the Silvretta for a month, and it was good to be down in the valley. In the Silvretta the skiing had been all right, but it was spring skiing, the snow was good only in the early morning and again in the evening. The rest of the time it was spoiled by the sun. We were both tired of the sun. You could not get away from the sun. The only shadows were made by rocks or by the hut that was built under the protection of a rock beside a glacier, and in the shade the sweat froze in your underclothing. You could not sit outside the hut without dark glasses. It was pleasant to be burned black but the sun had been very tiring. You could not rest in it. I was glad to be down away from snow. It was too late in the spring to be up in the Silvretta. I was a little tired of skiing. We had stayed too long. I could taste the snow water we had been drinking melted off the tin roof of the hut. The taste was a part of the way I felt about skiing. I was glad there were other things beside skiing, and I was glad to be down, away from the unnatural high mountain spring, into this May morning in the valley. The innkeeper sat on the porch of the inn, his chair tipped back against the wall. Beside him sat the cook. \'93Ski-heil!\'94 said the innkeeper. \'93Heil!\'94 we said and leaned the skis against the wall and took off our packs. \'93How was it up above?\'94 asked the innkeeper. \'93Sch\'f6n. A little too much sun.\'94 \'93Yes. There\'92s too much sun this time of year.\'94 The cook sat on in his chair. The innkeeper went in with us and unlocked his office and brought out our mail. There was a bundle of letters and some papers. \'93Let\'92s get some beer,\'94 John said. \'93Good. We\'92ll drink it inside.\'94 The proprietor brought two bottles and we drank them while we read the letters. \'93We better have some more beer,\'94 John said. A girl brought it this time. She smiled as she opened the bottles. \'93Many letters,\'94 she said. \'93Yes. Many.\'94 \'93Prosit,\'94 she said and went out, taking the empty bottles. \'93I\'92d forgotten what beer tasted like.\'94 \'93I hadn\'92t,\'94 John said. \'93Up in the hut I used to think about it a lot.\'94 \'93Well,\'94 I said, \'93we\'92ve got it now.\'94 \'93You oughtn\'92t to ever do anything too long.\'94 \'93No. We were up there too long.\'94 \'93Too damn long,\'94 John said. \'93It\'92s no good doing a thing too long.\'94 The sun came through the open window and shone through the beer bottles on the table. The bottles were half full. There was a little froth on the beer in the bottles, not much because it was very cold. It collared up when you poured it into the tall glasses. I looked out of the open window at the white road. The trees beside the road were dusty. Beyond was a green field and a stream. There were trees along the stream and a mill with a water wheel. Through the open side of the mill I saw a long log and a saw in it rising and falling. No one seemed to be tending it. There were four crows walking in the green field. One crow sat in a tree watching. Outside on the porch the cook got off his chair and passed into the hall that led back into the kitchen. Inside, the sunlight shone through the empty glasses on the table. John was leaning forward with his head on his arms. Through the window I saw two men come up the front steps. They came into the drinking room. One was the bearded peasant in the high boots. The other was the sexton. They sat down at the table under the window. The girl came in and stood by their table. The peasant did not seem to see her. He sat with his hands on the table. He wore his old army clothes. There were patches on the elbows. \'93What will it be?\'94 asked the sexton. The peasant did not pay any attention. \'93What will you drink?\'94 \'93Schnapps,\'94 the peasant said. \'93And a quarter litre of red wine,\'94 the sexton told the girl. The girl brought the drinks and the peasant drank the schnapps. He looked out of the window. The sexton watched him. John had his head forward on the table. He was asleep. The innkeeper came in and went over to the table. He spoke in dialect and the sexton answered him. The peasant looked out of the window. The innkeeper went out of the room. The peasant stood up. He took a folded ten-thousand kronen note out of a leather pocketbook and unfolded it. The girl came up. \'93Alles?\'94 she asked. \'93Alles,\'94 he said. \'93Let me buy the wine,\'94 the sexton said. \'93Alles,\'94 the peasant repeated to the girl. She put her hand in the pocket of her apron, brought it out full of coins and counted out the change. The peasant went out the door. As soon as he was gone the innkeeper came into the room again and spoke to the sexton. He sat down at the table. They talked in dialect. The sexton was amused. The innkeeper was disgusted. The sexton stood up from the table. He was a little man with a mustache. He leaned out of the window and looked up the road. \'93There he goes in,\'94 he said. \'93In the L\'f6wen?\'94 \'93Ja.\'94 They talked again and then the innkeeper came over to our table. The innkeeper was a tall man and old. He looked at John asleep. \'93He\'92s pretty tired.\'94 \'93Yes, we were up early.\'94 \'93Will you want to eat soon?\'94 \'93Any time,\'94 I said. \'93What is there to eat?\'94 \'93Anything you want. The girl will bring the eating-card.\'94 The girl brought the menu. John woke up. The menu was written in ink on a card and the card slipped into a wooden paddle. \'93There\'92s the Speisekarte,\'94 I said to John. He looked at it. He was still sleepy. \'93Won\'92t you have a drink with us?\'94 I asked the innkeeper. He sat down. \'93Those peasants are beasts,\'94 said the innkeeper. \'93We saw that one at a funeral coming into town.\'94 \'93That was his wife.\'94 \'93Oh.\'94 \'93He\'92s a beast. All these peasants are beasts.\'94 \'93How do you mean?\'94 \'93You wouldn\'92t believe it. You wouldn\'92t believe what just happened about that one.\'94 \'93Tell me.\'94 \'93You wouldn\'92t believe it.\'94 The innkeeper spoke to the sexton. \'93Franz, come over here.\'94 The sexton came, bringing his little bottle of wine and his glass. \'93The gentlemen are just come down from the Wiesbadenerh\'fctte,\'94 the innkeeper said. We shook hands. \'93What will you drink?\'94 I asked. \'93Nothing,\'94 Franz shook his finger. \'93Another quarter litre?\'94 \'93All right.\'94 \'93Do you understand dialect?\'94 the innkeeper asked. \'93No.\'94 \'93What\'92s it all about?\'94 John asked. \'93He\'92s going to tell us about the peasant we saw filling the grave, coming into town.\'94 \'93I can\'92t understand it, anyway,\'94 John said. \'93It goes too fast for me.\'94 \'93That peasant,\'94 the innkeeper said, \'93today he brought his wife in to be buried. She died last November.\'94 \'93December,\'94 said the sexton. \'93That makes nothing. She died last December then, and he notified the commune.\'94 \'93December eighteenth,\'94 said the sexton. \'93Anyway, he couldn\'92t bring her over to be buried until the snow was gone.\'94 \'93He lives on the other side of the Paznaun,\'94 said the sexton. \'93But he belongs to this parish.\'94 \'93He couldn\'92t bring her out at all?\'94 I asked. \'93No. He can only come, from where he lives, on skis until the snow melts. So today he brought her in to be buried and the priest, when he looked at her face, didn\'92t want to bury her. You go on and tell it,\'94 he said to the sexton. \'93Speak German, not dialect.\'94 \'93It was very funny with the priest,\'94 said the sexton. \'93In the report to the commune she died of heart trouble. We knew she had heart trouble here. She used to faint in church sometimes. She did not come for a long time. She wasn\'92t strong to climb. When the priest uncovered her face he asked Olz, \'91Did your wife suffer much?\'92 \'91No\'92 said Olz. \'91When I came in the house she was dead across the bed.\'92 \'93The priest looked at her again. He didn\'92t like it. \'93 \'91How did her face get that way?\'92 \'93\'91don\'92t know,\'92 Olz said. \'93\'91You\'92d better find out,\'92 the priest said, and put the blanket back. Olz didn\'92t say anything. The priest looked at him. Olz looked back at the priest. \'91You want to know?\'92 \'93\'91must know,\'92 the priest said.\'94 \'93This is where it\'92s good,\'94 the innkeeper said. \'93Listen to this. Go on Franz.\'94 \'93\'91Well,\'92 said Olz, \'91when she died I made the report to the commune and I put her in the shed across the top of the big wood. When I started to use the big wood she was stiff and I put her up against the wall. Her mouth was open and when I came into the shed at night to cut up the big wood, I hung the lantern from it.\'92 \'93\'91Why did you do that?\'92 asked the priest. \'93\'91don\'92t know,\'92 said Olz. \'93\'91Did you do that many times?\'92 \'93\'91Every time I went to work in the shed at night.\'92 \'93\'91It was very wrong,\'92 said the priest. \'91Did you love your wife?\'92 \'93\'91Ja, I loved her,\'92 Olz said. \'91I loved her fine.\'92\'94 \'93Did you understand it all?\'94 asked the innkeeper. \'93You understand it all about his wife?\'94 \'93I heard it.\'94 \'93How about eating?\'94 John asked. \'93You order,\'94 I said. \'93Do you think it\'92s true?\'94 I asked the innkeeper. \'93Sure it\'92s true,\'94 he said. \'93These peasants are beasts.\'94 \'93Where did he go now?\'94 \'93He\'92s gone to drink at my colleague\'92s, the L\'f6wen.\'94 \'93He didn\'92t want to drink with me,\'94 said the sexton. \'93He didn\'92t want to drink with me, after he knew about his wife,\'94 said the innkeeper. \'93Say,\'94 said John. \'93How about eating?\'94 \'93All right,\'94 I said. A Pursuit Race WILLIAM CAMPBELL HAD BEEN IN A PUR suit race with a burlesque show ever since Pittsburgh. In a pursuit race, in bicycle racing, riders start at equal intervals to ride after one another. They ride very fast because the race is usually limited to a short distance and if they slow their riding another rider who maintains his pace will make up the space that separated them equally at the start. As soon as a rider is caught and passed he is out of the race and must get down from his bicycle and leave the track. If none of the riders are caught the winner of the race is the one who has gained the most distance. In most pursuit races, if there are only two riders, one of the riders is caught inside of six miles. The burlesque show caught William Campbell at Kansas City. William Campbell had hoped to hold a slight lead over the burlesque show until they reached the Pacific coast. As long as he preceded the burlesque show as advance man he was being paid. When the burlesque show caught up with him he was in bed. He was in bed when the manager of the burlesque troupe came into his room and after the manager had gone out he decided that he might as well stay in bed. It was very cold in Kansas City and he was in no hurry to go out. He did not like Kansas City. He reached under the bed for a bottle and drank. It made his stomach feel better. Mr. Turner, the manager of the burlesque show, had refused a drink. William Campbell\'92s interview with Mr. Turner had been a little strange. Mr. Turner had knocked on the door. Campbell had said: \'93Come in!\'94 When Mr. Turner came into the room he saw clothing on a chair, an open suitcase, the bottle on a chair beside the bed, and some one lying in the bed completely covered by the bed-clothes. \'93Mister Campbell,\'94 Mr. Turner said. \'93You can\'92t fire me,\'94 William Campbell said from underneath the covers. It was warm and white and close under the covers. \'93You can\'92t fire me because I\'92ve got down off my bicycle.\'94 \'93You\'92re drunk,\'94 Mr. Turner said. \'93Oh, yes,\'94 William Campbell said, speaking directly against the sheet and feeling the texture with his lips. \'93You\'92re a fool,\'94 Mr. Turner said. He turned off the electric light. The electric light had been burning all night. It was now ten o\'92clock in the morning. \'93You\'92re a drunken fool. When did you get into this town?\'94 \'93I got into this town last night,\'94 William Campbell said, speaking against the sheet. He found he liked to talk through a sheet. \'93Did you ever talk through a sheet?\'94 \'93Don\'92t try to be funny. You aren\'92t funny.\'94 \'93I\'92m not being funny. I\'92m just talking through a sheet.\'94 \'93You\'92re talking through a sheet all right.\'94 \'93You can go now, Mr. Turner,\'94 Campbell said. \'93I don\'92t work for you any more.\'94 \'93You know that anyway.\'94 \'93I know a lot,\'94 William Campbell said. He pulled down the sheet and looked at Mr. Turner. \'93I know enough so I don\'92t mind looking at you at all. Do you want to hear what I know?\'94 \'93No.\'94 \'93Good,\'94 said William Campbell. \'93Because really I don\'92t know anything at all. I was just talking.\'94 He pulled the sheet up over his face again. \'93I love it under a sheet,\'94 he said. Mr. Turner stood beside the bed. He was a middle-aged man with a large stomach and a bald head and he had many things to do. \'93You ought to stop off here, Billy, and take a cure,\'94 he said. \'93I\'92ll fix it up if you want to do it.\'94 \'93I don\'92t want to take a cure,\'94 William Campbell said. \'93I don\'92t want to take a cure at all. I am perfectly happy. All my life I have been perfectly happy.\'94 \'93How long have you been this way?\'94 \'93What a question!\'94 William Campbell breathed in and out through the sheet. \'93How long have you been stewed, Billy?\'94 \'93Haven\'92t I done my work?\'94 \'93Sure. I just asked you how long you\'92ve been stewed, Billy.\'94 \'93I don\'92t know. But I\'92ve got my wolf back,\'94 he touched the sheet with his tongue. \'93I\'92ve had him for a week.\'94 \'93The hell you have.\'94 \'93Oh, yes. My dear wolf. Every time I take a drink he goes outside the room. He can\'92t stand alcohol. The poor little fellow.\'94 He moved his tongue round and round on the sheet. \'93He\'92s a lovely wolf. He\'92s just like he always was.\'94 William Campbell shut his eyes and took a deep breath. \'93You got to take a cure, Billy,\'94 Mr. Turner said. \'93You won\'92t mind the Keeley. It isn\'92t bad.\'94 \'93The Keeley,\'94 William Campbell said. \'93It isn\'92t far from London.\'94 He shut his eyes and opened them, moving the eyelashes against the sheet. \'93I just love sheets,\'94 he said. He looked at Mr. Turner. \'93Listen, you think I\'92m drunk.\'94 \'93You are drunk.\'94 \'93No, I\'92m not.\'94 \'93You\'92re drunk and you\'92ve had D.T.\'92s.\'94 \'93No.\'94 William Campbell held the sheet around his head. \'93Dear sheet,\'94 he said. He breathed against it gently. \'93Pretty sheet. You love me, don\'92t you, sheet? It\'92s all in the price of the room. Just like in Japan. No,\'94 he said. \'93Listen Billy, dear Sliding Billy, I have a surprise for you. I\'92m not drunk. I\'92m hopped to the eyes.\'94 \'93No,\'94 said Mr. Turner. \'93Take a look.\'94 William Campbell pulled up the right sleeve of his pyjama jacket under the sheet, then shoved the right forearm out. \'93Look at that.\'94 On the forearm, from just above the wrist to the elbow, were small blue circles around tiny dark blue punctures. The circles almost touched one another. \'93That\'92s trie new development,\'94 William Campbell said. \'93I drink a little now once in a while, just to drive the wolf out of the room.\'94 \'93They got a cure for that,\'94 \'93Sliding Billy\'94 Turner said. \'93No,\'94 William Campbell said. \'93They haven\'92t got a cure for anything.\'94 \'93You can\'92t just quit like that, Billy,\'94 Turner said. He sat on the bed. \'93Be careful of my sheet,\'94 William Campbell said. \'93You can\'92t just quit at your age and take to pumping yourself full of that stuff just because you got in a jam.\'94 \'93There\'92s a law against it. If that\'92s what you mean.\'94 \'93No, I mean you got to fight it out.\'94 Billy Campbell caressed the sheet with his lips and his tongue. \'93Dear sheet,\'94 he said. \'93I can kiss this sheet and see right through it at the same time.\'94 \'93Cut it out about the sheet. You can\'92t just take to that stuff, Billy.\'94 William Campbell shut his eyes. He was beginning to feel a slight nausea. He knew that this nausea would increase steadily, without there ever being the relief of sickness, until something were done against it. It was at this point that he suggested that Mr. Turner have a drink. Mr. Turner declined. William Campbell took a drink from the bottle. It was a temporary measure. Mr. Turner watched him. Mr. Turner had been in this room much longer than he should have been, he had many things to do; although living in daily association with people who used drugs, he had a horror of drugs, and he was very fond of William Campbell; he did not wish to leave him. He was very sorry for him and he felt a cure might help. He knew there were good cures in Kansas City. But he had to go. He stood up. \'93Listen, Billy,\'94 William Campbell said, \'93I want to tell you something. You\'92re called \'91Sliding Billy.\'92 That\'92s because you can slide. I\'92m called just Billy. That\'92s because I never could slide at all. I can\'92t slide, Billy. I can\'92t slide. It just catches. Every time I try it, it catches.\'94 He shut his eyes. \'93I can\'92t slide, Billy. It\'92s awful when you can\'92t slide.\'94 \'93Yes,\'94 said \'93Sliding Billy\'94 Turner. \'93Yes, what?\'94 William Campbell looked at him. \'93You were saying.\'94 \'93No,\'94 said William Campbell. \'93I wasn\'92t saying. It must have been a mistake.\'94 \'93You were saying about sliding.\'94 \'93No. It couldn\'92t have been about sliding. But listen, Billy, and I\'92ll tell you a secret. Stick to sheets, Billy. Keep away from women and horses and, and\'97\'94 he stopped \'93\'97eagles, Billy. If you love horses you\'92ll get horse-shit, and if you love eagles you\'92ll get eagle-shit.\'94 He stopped and put his head under the sheet. \'93I got to go,\'94 said \'93Sliding Billy\'94 Turner. \'93If you love women you\'92ll get a dose,\'94 William Campbell said. \'93If you love horses\'97\'94 \'93Yes, you said that.\'94 \'93Said what?\'94 \'93About horses and eagles.\'94 \'93Oh, yes. And if you love sheets.\'94 He breathed on the sheet and stroked his nose against it. \'93I don\'92t know about sheets,\'94 he said. \'93I just started to love this sheet.\'94 \'93I have to go,\'94 Mr. Turner said. \'93I got a lot to do.\'94 \'93That\'92s all right,\'94 William Campbell said. \'93Everybody\'92s got to go.\'94 \'93I better go.\'94 \'93All right, you go.\'94 \'93Are you all right, Billy?\'94 \'93I was never so happy in my life.\'94 \'93And you\'92re all right?\'94 \'93I\'92m fine. You go along. I\'92ll just lie here for a little while. Around noon I\'92ll get up.\'94 But when Mr. Turner came up to William Campbell\'92s room at noon William Campbell was sleeping and as Mr. Turner was a man who knew what things in life were very valuable he did not wake him. Today Is Friday Three Roman soldiers are in a drinking-place at eleven o\'92clock at night. There are barrels around the wall. Behind the wooden counter is a Hebrew wineseller. The three Roman soldiers are a little cock-eyed. 1st Roman Soldier\'97You tried the red? 2d Soldier\'97No, I ain\'92t tried it. 1st Soldier\'97You better try it. 2d Soldier\'97All right, George, we\'92ll have a round of the red. Hebrew Wine-seller\'97Here you are, gentlemen. You\'92ll like that. [ He sets down an earthenware pitcher that he has filled from one of the casks.] That\'92s a nice little wine. 1st Soldier\'97Have a drink of it yourself. [He turns to the third Roman soldier who is leaning on a barrel.] What\'92s the matter with you? 3d Roman Soldier\'97I got a gut-ache. 2d Soldier\'97You\'92ve been drinking water. 1st Soldier\'97Try some of the red. 3d Soldier\'97I can\'92t drink the damn stuff. It makes my gut sour. 1st Soldier\'97You been out here too long. 3d Soldier\'97Hell don\'92t I know it? 1st Soldier\'97Say, George, can\'92t you give this gentleman something to fix up his stomach? Hebrew Wine-seller\'97I got it right here. [The third Roman soldier tastes the cup that the wine-seller has mixed for him.] 3d Soldier\'97Hey, what you put in that, camel chips? Wine-seller\'97You drink that right down, Lootenant. That\'92ll fix you up right. 3d Soldier\'97Well, I couldn\'92t feel any worse. 1st Soldier\'97Take a chance on it. George fixed me up fine the other day. Wine-seller\'97You were in bad shape, Lootenant. I know what fixes up a bad stomach. [The third Roman soldier drinks the cup down.] 3d Roman Soldier\'97Jesus Christ. [He makes a face.] 2d Soldier\'97That false alarm! 1st Soldier\'97Oh, I don\'92t know. He was pretty good in there today. 2d Soldier\'97Why didn\'92t he come down off the cross? 1st Soldier\'97He didn\'92t want to come down off the cross. That\'92s not his play. 2d Soldier\'97Show me a guy that doesn\'92t want to come down off the cross. 1st Soldier\'97Aw, hell, you don\'92t know anything about it. Ask George there. Did he want to come down off the cross, George? Wine-seller\'97I\'92ll tell you, gentlemen, I wasn\'92t out there. It\'92s a thing I haven\'92t taken any interest in. 2d Soldier\'97Listen, I seen a lot of them\'97here and plenty of other places. Any time you show me one that doesn\'92t want to get down off the cross when the time comes\'97when the time comes, I mean\'97 I\'92ll climb right up with him. 1st Soldier\'97I thought he was pretty good in there today. 3d Soldier\'97He was all right. 2d Roman Soldier\'97You guys don\'92t know what I\'92m talking about. I\'92m not saying whether he was good or not. What I mean is, when the time comes. When they first start nailing him, there isn\'92t none of them wouldn\'92t stop it if they could. 1st Soldier\'97Didn\'92t you follow it, George? Wine-seller\'97No, I didn\'92t take any interest in it, Lootenant. 1st Soldier\'97I was surprised how he acted. 3d Soldier\'97The part I don\'92t like is the nailing them on. You know, that must get to you pretty bad. 2d Soldier\'97It isn\'92t that that\'92s so bad, as when they first lift \'92em up. [He makes a lifting gesture with his two palms together.] When the weight starts to pull on \'92em. That\'92s when it gets \'92em. 3d Roman Soldier\'97It take some of them pretty bad. 1st Soldier\'97Ain\'92t I seen \'92em? I seen plenty of them. I tell you, he was pretty good in there today. [The second Roman soldier smiles at the Hebrew wine-seller.] 2d Soldier\'97You\'92re a regular Christer, big boy. 1st Soldier\'97Sure, go on and kid him. But listen while I tell you something. He was pretty good in there today. 2d Soldier\'97What about some more wine? [The wine-seller looks up expectantly. The third Roman soldier is sitting with his head down. He does not look well.] 3d Soldier\'97I don\'92t want any more. 2d Soldier\'97Just for two, George. [The wine-seller puts out a pitcher of wine, a size smaller than the last one. He leans forward on the wooden counter.] 1st Roman Soldier\'97You see his girl? 2d Soldier\'97Wasn\'92t I standing right by her? 1st Soldier\'97She\'92s a nice-looker. 2d Soldier\'97I knew her before he did. [He winks at the wine-seller.] 1st Soldier\'97I used to see her around the town. 2d Soldier\'97She used to have a lot of stuff. He never brought her no good luck. 1st Soldier\'97Oh, he ain\'92t lucky. But he looked pretty good to me in there today. 2d Soldier\'97What become of his gang? 1st Soldier\'97Oh, they faded out. Just the women stuck by him. 2d Roman Soldier\'97They were a pretty yellow crowd. When they seen him go up there they didn\'92t want any of it. 1st Soldier\'97The women stuck all right. 2d Soldier\'97Sure, they stuck all right. 1st Roman Soldier\'97You see me slip the old spear into him? 2d Roman Soldier\'97You\'92ll get into trouble doing that some day. 1st Soldier\'97It was the least I could do for him. I\'92ll tell you he looked pretty good to me in there today. Hebrew Wine-seller\'97Gentlemen, you know I got to close. 1st Roman Soldier\'97We\'92ll have one more round. 2d Roman Soldier\'97What\'92s the use? This stuff don\'92t get you anywhere. Come on, let\'92s go. 1st Soldier\'97Just another round. 3d Roman Soldier\'97[Getting up from the barrel.] No, come on. Let\'92s go. I feel like hell tonight. 1st Soldier\'97Just one more. 2d Soldier\'97No, come on. We\'92re going to go. Good-night, George. Put it on the bill. Wine-seller\'97Good-night, gentlemen. [He looks a little worried.] You couldn\'92t let me have a little something on account, Lootenant? 2d Roman Soldier\'97What the hell, George! Wednesday\'92s payday. Wine-seller\'97It\'92s all right, Lootenant. Good-night, gentlemen. [The three Roman soldiers go out the door into the street.] [Outside in the street.] 2d Roman Soldier\'97George is a kike just like all the rest of them. 1st Roman Soldier\'97Oh, George is a nice fella. 2d Soldier\'97Everybody\'92s a nice fella to you tonight. 3d Roman Soldier\'97Come on, let\'92s go up to the barracks. I feel like hell tonight. 2d Soldier\'97You been out here too long. 3d Roman Soldier\'97No, it ain\'92t just that. I feel like hell. 2d Soldier\'97You been out here too long. That\'92s all. CURTAIN Banal Story SO HE ATE AN ORANGE, SLOWLY SPITTING out the seeds. Outside, the snow was turning to rain. Inside, the electric stove seemed to give no heat and rising from his writing-table, he sat down upon the stove. How good it felt! Here, at last, was life. He reached for another orange. Far away in Paris, Mascart had knocked Danny Frush cuckoo in the second round. Far off in Mesopotamia, twenty-one feet of snow had fallen. Across the world in distant Australia, the English cricketers were sharpening up their wickets. There was Romance. Patrons of the arts and letters have discovered The Forum, he read. It is the guide, philosopher, and friend of the thinking minority. Prize short-stories\'97will their authors write our best-sellers of tomorrow? You will enjoy these warm, homespun, American tales, bits of real life on the open ranch, in crowded tenement or comfortable home, and all with a healthy undercurrent of humor. I must read them, he thought. He read on. Our children\'92s children\'97what of them? Who of them? New means must be discovered to find room for us under the sun. Shall this be done by war or can it be done by peaceful methods? Or will we all have to move to Canada? Our deepest convictions\'97will Science upset them? Our civilization\'97is it inferior to older orders of things? And meanwhile, in the far-off dripping jungles of Yucatan, sounded the chopping of the axes of the gum-choppers. Do we want big men\'97or do we want them cultured? Take Joyce. Take President Coolidge. What star must our college students aim at? There is Jack Britton. There is Doctor Henry Van Dyke. Can we reconcile the two? Take the case of Young Stribling. And what of our daughters who must make their own Soundings? Nancy Hawthorne is obliged to make her own Soundings in the sea of life. Bravely and sensibly she faces the problems which come to every girl of eighteen. It was a splendid booklet. Are you a girl of eighteen? Take the case of Joan of Arc. Take the case of Bernard Shaw. Take the case of Betsy Ross. Think of these things in 1925\'97Was there a risqu\'e9 page in Puritan history? Were there two sides to Pocahontas? Did she have a fourth dimension? Are modem paintings\'97and poetry\'97Art? Yes and No. Take Picasso. Have tramps codes of conduct? Send your mind adventuring. There is Romance everywhere. Forum writers talk to the point, are possessed of humor and wit. But they do not try to be smart and are never long-winded. Live the full life of the mind, exhilarated by new ideas, intoxicated by the Romance of the unusual. He laid down the booklet. And meanwhile, stretched flat on a bed in a darkened room in his house in Triana, Manuel Garcia Maera lay with a tube in each lung, drowning with the pneumonia. All the papers in Andalucia devoted special supplements to his death, which had been expected for some days. Men and boys bought full-length colored pictures of him to remember him by, and lost the picture they had of him in their memories by looking at the lithographs. Bull-fighters were very relieved he was dead, because he did always in the bull-ring the things they could only do sometimes. They all marched in the rain behind his coffin and there were one hundred and forty-seven bull-fighters followed him out to the cemetery, where they buried him in the tomb next to Joselito. After the funeral every one sat in the caf\'e9s out of the rain, and many colored pictures of Maera were sold to men who rolled them up and put them away in their pockets. Now I Lay Me THAT NIGHT WE LAY ON THE FLOOR IN the room and I listened to the silk-worms eating. The silk-worms fed in racks of mulberry leaves and all night you could hear them eating and a dropping sound in the leaves. I myself did not want to sleep because I had been living for a long time with the knowledge that if I ever shut my eyes in the dark and let myself go, my soul would go out of my body. I had been that way for a long time, ever since I had been blown up at night and felt it go out of me and go off and then come back. I tried never to think about it, but it had started to go since, in the nights, just at the moment of going off to sleep, and I could only stop it by a very great effort. So while now I am fairly sure that it would not really have gone out, yet then, that summer, I was unwilling to make the experiment. I had different ways of occupying myself while I lay awake. I would think of a trout stream I had fished along when I was a boy and fish its whole length very carefully in my mind; fishing very carefully under all the logs, all the turns of the bank, the deep holes and the clear shallow stretches, sometimes catching trout and sometimes losing them. I would stop fishing at noon to eat my lunch; sometimes on a log over the stream; sometimes on a high bank under a tree, and I always ate my lunch very slowly and watched the stream below me while I ate. Often I ran out of bait because I would take only ten worms with me in a tobacco tin when I started. When I had used them all I had to find more worms, and sometimes it was very difficult digging in the bank of the stream where the cedar trees kept out the sun and there was no grass but only the bare moist earth and often I could find no worms. Always though I found some kind of bait, but one time in the swamp I could find no bait at all and had to cut up one of the trout I had caught and use him for bait. Sometimes I found insects in the swamp meadows, in the grass or under ferns, and used them. There were beetles and insects with legs like grass stems, and grubs in old rotten logs; white grubs with brown pinching heads that would not stay on the hook and emptied into nothing in the cold water, and wood ticks under logs where sometimes I found angle-worms that slipped into the ground as soon as the log was raised. Once I used a salamander from under an old log. The salamander was very small and neat and agile and a lovely color. He had tiny feet that tried to hold on to the hook, and after that one time I never used a salamander, although I found them very often. Nor did I use crickets, because of the way they acted about the hook. Sometimes the stream ran through an open meadow, and in the dry grass I would catch grasshoppers and use them for bait and sometimes I would catch grasshoppers and toss them into the stream and watch them float along swimming on the stream and circling on the surface as the current took them and then disappear as a trout rose. Sometimes I would fish four or five different streams in the night; starting as near as I could get to their source and fishing them down stream. When I had finished too quickly and the time did not go, I would fish the stream over again, starting where it emptied into the lake and fishing back up stream, trying for all the trout I had missed coming down. Some nights too I made up streams, and some of them were very exciting, and it was like being awake and dreaming. Some of those streams I still remember and think that I have fished in them, and they are confused with streams I really know. I gave them all names and went to them on the train and sometimes walked for miles to get to them. But some nights I could not fish, and on those nights I was cold-awake and said my prayers over and over and tried to pray for all the people I had ever known. That took up a great amount of time, for if you try to remember all the people you have ever known, going back to the earliest thing you remember\'97which was, with me, the attic of the house where I was born and my mother and father\'92s wedding-cake in a tin box hanging from one of the rafters, and, in the attic, jars of snakes and other specimens that my father had collected as a boy and preserved in alcohol, the alcohol sunken in the jars so the backs of some of the snakes and specimens were exposed and had turned white\'97if you thought back that far, you remembered a great many people. If you prayed for all of them, saying a Hail Mary and an Our Father for each one, it took a long time and finally it would be light, and then you could go to sleep, if you were in a place where you could sleep in the daylight. On those nights I tried to remember everything that had ever happened to me, starting with just before I went to the war and remembering back from one thing to another. I found I could only remember back to that attic in my grandfather\'92s house. Then I would start there and remember this way again, until I reached the war. I remember, after my grandfather died we moved away from that house and to a new house designed and built by my mother. Many things that were not to be moved were burned in the backyard and I remember those jars from the attic being thrown in the fire, and how they popped in the heat and the fire flamed up from the alcohol. I remember the snakes burning in the fire in the backyard. But there were no people in that, only things. I could not remember who burned the things even, and I would go on until I came to people and then stop and pray for them. About the new house I remember how my mother was always cleaning things out and making a good clearance. One time when my father was away on a hunting trip she made a good thorough cleaning out in the basement and burned everything that should not have been there. When my father came home and got down from his buggy and hitched the horse, the fire was still burning in the road beside the house. I went out to meet him. He handed me his shotgun and looked at the fire. \'93What\'92s this?\'94 he asked. \'93I\'92ve been cleaning out the basement, dear,\'94 my mother said from the porch. She was standing there smiling, to meet him. My father looked at the fire and kicked at something. Then he leaned over and picked something out of the ashes. \'93Get a rake, Nick,\'94 he said to me. I went to the basement and brought a rake and my father raked very carefully in the ashes. He raked out stone axes and stone skinning knives and tools for making arrow-heads and pieces of pottery and many arrow-heads. They had all been blackened and chipped by the fire. My father raked them all out very carefully and spread them on the grass by the road. His shotgun in its leather case and his game-bags were on the grass where he had left them when he stepped down from the buggy. \'93Take the gun and the bags in the house, Nick, and bring me a paper,\'94 he said. My mother had gone inside the house. I took the shotgun, which was heavy to carry and banged against my legs, and the two game-bags and started toward the house. \'93Take them one at a time,\'94 my father said. \'93Don\'92t try and carry too much at once.\'94 I put down the game-bags and took in the shotgun and brought out a newspaper from the pile in my father\'92s office. My father spread all the blackened, chipped stone implements on the paper and then wrapped them up. \'93The best arrow-heads went all to pieces,\'94 he said. He walked into the house with the paper package and I stayed outside on the grass with the two game-bags. After a while I took them in. In remembering that, there were only two people, so I would pray for them both. Some nights, though, I could not remember my prayers even. I could only get as far as \'93On earth as it is in heaven\'94 and then have to start all over and be absolutely unable to get past that. Then I would have to recognize that I could not remember and give up saying my prayers that night and try something else. So on some nights I would try to remember all the animals in the world by name and then the birds and then fishes and then countries and cities and then kinds of food and the names of all the streets I could remember in Chicago, and when I could not remember anything at all any more I would just listen. And I do not remember a night on which you could not hear things. If I could have a light I was not afraid to sleep, because I knew my soul would only go out of me if it were dark. So, of course, many nights I was where I could have a light and then I slept because I was nearly always tired and often very sleepy. And I am sure many times too that I slept without knowing it\'97but I never slept knowing it, and on this night I listened to the silk-worms. You can hear silk-worms eating very clearly in the night and I lay with my eyes open and listened to them. There was only one other person in the room and he was awake too. I listened to him being awake, for a long time. He could not lie as quietly as I could because, perhaps, he had not had as much practice being awake. We were lying on blankets spread over straw and when he moved the straw was noisy, but the silk-worms were not frightened by any noise we made and ate on steadily. There were the noises of night seven kilometres behind the lines outside but they were different from the small noises inside the room in the dark. The other man in the room tried lying quietly. Then he moved again. I moved too, so he would know I was awake. He had lived ten years in Chicago. They had taken him for a soldier in nineteen fourteen when he had come back to visit his family, and they had given him me for an orderly because he spoke English. I heard him listening, so I moved again in the blankets. \'93Can\'92t you sleep, Signor Tenente?\'94 he asked. \'93No.\'94 \'93I can\'92t sleep, either.\'94 \'93What\'92s the matter?\'94 \'93I don\'92t know. I can\'92t sleep.\'94 \'93You feel all right?\'94 \'93Sure. I feel good. I just can\'92t sleep.\'94 \'93You want to talk a while?\'94 I asked. \'93Sure. What can you talk about in this damn place.\'94 \'93This place is pretty good,\'94 I said. \'93Sure,\'94 he said. \'93It\'92s all right.\'94 \'93Tell me about out in Chicago,\'94 I said. \'93Oh,\'94 he said, \'93I told you all that once.\'94 \'93Tell me about how you got married.\'94 \'93I told you that.\'94 \'93Was the letter you got Monday\'97from her?\'94 \'93Sure. She writes me all the time. She\'92s making good money with the place.\'94 \'93You\'92ll have a nice place when you go back.\'94 \'93Sure. She runs it fine. She\'92s making a lot of money.\'94 \'93Don\'92t you think we\'92ll wake them up, talking?\'94 I asked. \'93No. They can\'92t hear. Anyway, they sleep like pigs. I\'92m different,\'94 he said. \'93I\'92m nervous.\'94 \'93Talk quiet,\'94 I said. \'93Want a smoke?\'94 We smoked skilfully in the dark. \'93You don\'92t smoke much. Signor Tenente.\'94 \'93No. I\'92ve just about cut it out.\'94 \'93Well,\'94 he said, \'93it don\'92t do you any good and I suppose you get so you don\'92t miss it. Did you ever hear a blind man won\'92t smoke because he can\'92t see the smoke come out?\'94 \'93I don\'92t believe it.\'94 \'93I think it\'92s all bull, myself,\'94 he said. \'93I just heard it somewhere. You know how you hear things.\'94 We were both quiet and I listened to the silk-worms. \'93You hear those damn silk-worms?\'94 he asked. \'93You can hear them chew.\'94 \'93It\'92s funny,\'94 I said. \'93Say, Signor Tenente, is there something really the matter that you can\'92t sleep? I never see you sleep. You haven\'92t slept nights ever since I been with you.\'94 \'93I don\'92t know, John,\'94 I said. \'93I got in pretty bad shape along early last spring and at night it bothers me.\'94 \'93Just like I am,\'94 he said. \'93I shouldn\'92t have ever got in this war. I\'92m too nervous.\'94 \'93Maybe it will get better.\'94 \'93Say, Signor Tenente, what did you get in this war for, anyway?\'94 \'93I don\'92t know, John. I wanted to, then.\'94 \'93Wanted to,\'94 he said. \'93That\'92s a hell of a reason.\'94 \'93We oughtn\'92t to talk out loud,\'94 I said. \'93They sleep just like pigs,\'94 he said. \'93They can\'92t understand the English language, anyway. They don\'92t know a damn thing. What are you going to do when it\'92s over and we go back to the States?\'94 \'93I\'92ll get a job on a paper.\'94 \'93In Chicago?\'94 \'93Maybe.\'94 \'93Do you ever read what this fellow Brisbane writes? My wife cuts it out for me and sends it to me.\'94 \'93Sure.\'94 \'93Did you ever meet him?\'94 \'93No, but I\'92ve seen him.\'94 \'93I\'92d like to meet that fellow. He\'92s a fine writer. My wife don\'92t read English but she takes the paper just like when I was home and she cuts out the editorials and the sport page and sends them to me.\'94 \'93How are your kids?\'94 \'93They\'92re fine. One of the girls is in the fourth grade now. You know, Signor Tenente, if I didn\'92t have the kids I wouldn\'92t be your orderly now. They\'92d have made me stay in the line all the time.\'94 \'93I\'92m glad you\'92ve got them.\'94 \'93So am I. They\'92re fine kids but I want a boy. Three girls and no boy. That\'92s a hell of a note.\'94 \'93Why don\'92t you try and go to sleep?\'94 \'93No, I can\'92t sleep now. I\'92m wide awake now, Signor Tenente. Say, I\'92m worried about you not sleeping though.\'94 \'93It\'92ll be all right, John.\'94 \'93Imagine a young fellow like you not to sleep.\'94 \'93I\'92ll get all right. It just takes a while.\'94 \'93You got to get all right. A man can\'92t get along that don\'92t sleep. Do you worry about anything? You got anything on your mind?\'94 \'93No, John, I don\'92t think so.\'94 \'93You ought to get married, Signor Tenente. Then you wouldn\'92t worry.\'94 \'93I don\'92t know.\'94 \'93You ought to get married. Why don\'92t you pick out some nice Italian girl with plenty of money? You could get any one you want. You\'92re young and you got good decorations and you look nice. You been wounded a couple of times.\'94 \'93I can\'92t talk the language well enough.\'94 \'93You talk it fine. To hell with talking the language. You don\'92t have to talk to them. Marry them.\'94 \'93I\'92ll think about it.\'94 \'93You know some girls, don\'92t you?\'94 \'93Sure.\'94 \'93Well, you marry the one with the most money. Over here, the way they\'92re brought up, they\'92ll all make you a good wife.\'94 \'93I\'92ll think about it.\'94 \'93Don\'92t think about it, Signor Tenente. Do it.\'94 \'93All right.\'94 \'93A man ought to be married. You\'92ll never regret it. Every man ought to be married.\'94 \'93All right,\'94 I said. \'93Let\'92s try and sleep a while.\'94 \'93All right, Signor Tenente. I\'92ll try it again. But you remember what I said.\'94 \'93I\'92ll remember it,\'94 I said. \'93Now let\'92s sleep a while, John.\'94 \'93All right,\'94 he said. \'93I hope you sleep, Signor Tenente.\'94 I heard him roll in his blankets on the straw and then he was very quiet and I listened to him breathing regularly. Then he started to snore. I listened to him snore for a long time and then I stopped listening to him snore and listened to the silk-worms eating. They ate steadily, making a dropping in the leaves. I had a new thing to think about and I lay in the dark with my eyes open and thought of all the girls I had ever known and what kind of wives they would make. It was a very interesting thing to think about and for a while it killed off trout-fishing and interfered with my prayers. Finally, though, I went back to trout-fishing, because I found that I could remember all the streams and there was always something new about them, while the girls, after I had thought about them a few times, blurred and I could not call them into my mind and finally they all blurred and all became rather the same and I gave up thinking about them almost altogether. But I kept on with my prayers and I prayed very often for John in the nights and his class was removed from active service before the October offensive. I was glad he was not there, because he would have been a great worry to me. He came to the hospital in Milan to see me several months after and was very disappointed that I had not yet married, and I know he would feel very badly if he knew that, so far, I have never married. He was going back to America and he was very certain about marriage and knew it would fix up everything. After the Storm IT WASN\'92T ABOUT ANYTHING, SOME thing about making punch, and then we started fighting and I slipped and he had me down kneeling on my chest and choking me with both hands like he was trying to kill me and all the time I was trying to get the knife out of my pocket to cut him loose. Everybody was too drunk to pull him off me. He was choking me and hammering my head on the floor and I got the knife out and opened it up; and I cut the muscle right across his arm and he let go of me. He couldn\'92t have held on if he wanted to. Then he rolled and hung onto that arm and started to cry and I said: \'93What the hell you want to choke me for?\'94 I\'92d have killed him. I couldn\'92t swallow for a week. He hurt my throat bad. Well, I went out of there and there were plenty of them with him and some came out after me and I made a turn and was down by the docks and I met a fellow and he said somebody killed a man up the street. I said \'93Who killed him?\'94 and he said \'93I don\'92t know who killed him but he\'92s dead all right,\'94 and it was dark and there was water standing in the street and no lights and windows broke and boats all up in the town and trees blown down and everything all blown and I got a skiff and went out and found my boat where I had her inside of Mango Key and she was all right only she was full of water. So I bailed her out and pumped her out and there was a moon but plenty of clouds and still plenty rough and I took it down along; and when it was daylight I was off Eastern Harbor. Brother, that was some storm. I was the first boat out and you never saw water like that was. It was just as white as a lye barrel and coming from Eastern Harbor to Sou\'92west Key you couldn\'92t recognize the shore. There was a big channel blown right out through the middle of the beach. Trees and all blown out and a channel cut through and all the water white as chalk and everything on it; branches and whole trees and dead birds, and all floating. Inside the keys were all the pelicans in the world and all kinds of birds flying. They must have gone inside there when they knew it was coming. I lay at Sou\'92west Key a day and nobody came after me. I was the first boat out and I seen a spar floating and I knew there must be a wreck and I started out to look for her. I found her. She was a three-masted schooner and I could just see the stumps of her spars out of water. She was in too deep water and I didn\'92t get anything off of her. So I went on looking for something else. I had the start on all of them and I knew I ought to get whatever there was. I went on down over the sand-bars from where I left that three-masted schooner and I didn\'92t find anything and I went on a long way. I was way out toward the quicksands and I didn\'92t find anything so I went on. Then when I was in sight of the Rebecca light I saw all kinds of birds making over something and I headed over for them to see what it was and there was a cloud of birds all right. I could see something looked like a spar up out of the water and when I got over close the birds all went up in the air and stayed all around me. The water was clear out there and there was a spar of some kind sticking out just above the water and when I come up close to it I saw it was all dark under water like a long shadow and I came right over it and there under water was a liner; just lying there all under water as big as the whole world. I drifted over her in the boat. She lay on her side and the stern was deep down. The port holes were all shut tight and I could see the glass shine in the water and the whole of her; the biggest boat I ever saw in my life laying there and I went along the whole length of her and then I went over and anchored and I had the skiff on the deck forward and I shoved it down into the water and sculled over with the birds all around me. I had a water glass like we use sponging and my hand shook so I could hardly hold it. All the port holes were shut that you could see going along over her but way down below near the bottom something must have been open because there were pieces of things floating out all the time. You couldn\'92t tell what they were. Just pieces. That\'92s what the birds were after. You never saw so many birds. They were all around me; crazy yelling. I could see everything sharp and clear. I could see her rounded over and she looked a mile long under the water. She was lying on a clear white bank of sand and the spar was a sort of foremast or some sort of tackle that slanted out of water the way she was laying on her side. Her bow wasn\'92t very far under. I could stand on the letters of her name on her bow and my head was just out of water. But the nearest port hole was twelve feet down. I could just reach it with the grains pole and I tried to break it with that but I couldn\'92t. The glass was too stout. So I sculled back to the boat and got a wrench and lashed it to the end of the grains pole and I couldn\'92t break it. There I was looking down through the glass at that liner with everything in her and I was the first one to her and I couldn\'92t get into her. She must have had five million dollars worth in her. It made me shaky to think how much she must have in her. Inside the port hole that was closest I could see something but I couldn\'92t make it out through the water glass. I couldn\'92t do any good with the grains pole and I took off my clothes and stood and took a couple of deep breaths and dove over off the stern with the wrench in my hand and swam down. I could hold on for a second to the edge of the port hole and I could see in and there was a woman inside with her hair floating all out. I could see her floating plain and I hit the glass twice with the wrench hard and I heard the noise clink in my ears but it wouldn\'92t break and I had to come up. I hung onto the dinghy and got my breath and then I climbed in and took a couple of breaths and dove again. I swam down and took hold of the edge of the port hole with my fingers and held it and hit the glass as hard as I could with the wrench. I could see the woman floated in the water through the glass. Her hair was tied once close to her head and it floated all out in the water. I could see the rings on one of her hands. She was right up close to the port hole and I hit the glass twice and I didn\'92t even crack it. When I came up I thought I wouldn\'92t make it to the top before I\'92d have to breathe. I went down once more and I cracked the glass, only cracked it, and when I came up my nose was bleeding and I stood on the bow of the liner with my bare feet on the letters of her name and my head just out and rested there and then I swam over to the skiff and pulled up into it and sat there waiting for my head to stop aching and looking down into the water glass, but I bled so I had to wash out the water glass. Then I lay back in the skiff and held my hand under my nose to stop it and I lay there with my head back looking up and there was a million birds above and all around. When I quit bleeding I took another look through the glass and then I sculled over to the boat to try and find something heavier than the wrench but I couldn\'92t find a thing; not even a sponge hook. I went back and the water was clearer all the time and you could see everything that floated out over that white bank of sand. I looked for sharks but there weren\'92t any. You could have seen a shark a long way away. The water was so clear and the sand white. There was a grapple for an anchor on the skiff and I cut it off and went overboard and down with it. It carried me right down and past the port hole and I grabbed and couldn\'92t hold anything and went on down and down, sliding along the curved side of her. I had to let go of the grapple. I heard it bump once and it seemed like a year before I came up through to the top of the water. The skiff was floated away with the tide and I swam over to her with my nose bleeding in the water while I swam and I was plenty glad there weren\'92t sharks; but I was tired. My head felt cracked open and I lay in the skiff and rested and then I sculled back. It was getting along in the afternoon. I went down once more with the wrench and it didn\'92t do any good. That wrench was too light. It wasn\'92t any good diving unless you had a big hammer or something heavy enough to do good. Then I lashed the wrench to the grains pole again and I watched through the water glass and pounded on the glass and hammered until the wrench came off and I saw it in the glass, clear and sharp, go sliding down along her and then off and down to the quicksand and go in. Then I couldn\'92t do a thing. The wrench was gone and I\'92d lost the grapple so I sculled back to the boat. I was too tired to get the skiff aboard and the sun was pretty low. The birds were all pulling out and leaving her and I headed for Sou\'92west Key towing the skiff and the birds going on ahead of me and behind me. I was plenty tired. That night it came on to blow and it blew for a week. You couldn\'92t get out to her. They come out from town and told me the fellow I\'92d had to cut was all right except for his arm and I went back to town and they put me under five hundred dollar bond. It came out all right because some of them, friends of mine, swore he was after me with an ax, but by the time we got back out to her the Greeks had blown her open and cleaned her out. They got the safe out with dynamite. Nobody ever knows how much they got. She carried gold and they got it all. They stripped her clean. I found her and I never got a nickel out of her. It was a hell of a thing all right. They say she was just outside of Havana harbor when the hurricane hit and she couldn\'92t get in or the owners wouldn\'92t let the captain chance coming in; they say he wanted to try; so she had to go with it and in the dark they were running with it trying to go through the gulf between Rebecca and Tortugas when she struck on the quicksands. Maybe her rudder was carried away. Maybe they weren\'92t even steering. But anyway they couldn\'92t have known they were quicksands and when she struck the captain must have ordered them to open up the ballast tanks so she\'92d lay solid. But it was quicksand she\'92d hit and when they opened the tank she went in stern first and then over on her beam ends. There were four hundred and fifty passengers and the crew on board of her and they must all have been aboard of her when I found her. They must have opened the tanks as soon as she struck and the minute she settled on it the quicksands took her down. Then her boilers must have burst and that must have been what made those pieces that came out. It was funny there weren\'92t any sharks though. There wasn\'92t a fish. I could have seen them on that clear white sand. Plenty of fish now though; jewfish, the biggest kind. The biggest part of her\'92s under the sand now but they live inside of her; the biggest kind of jewfish. Some weigh three to four hundred pounds. Sometime we\'92ll go out and get some. You can see the Rebecca light from where she is. They\'92ve got a buoy on her now. She\'92s right at the end of the quicksand right at the edge of the gulf. She only missed going through by about a hundred yards. In the dark in the storm they just missed it; raining the way it was they couldn\'92t have seen the Rebecca. Then they\'92re not used to that sort of thing. The captain of a liner isn\'92t used to scudding that way. They have a course and they tell me they set some sort of a compass and it steers itself. They probably didn\'92t know where they were when they ran with that blow but they come close to making it. Maybe they\'92d lost the rudder though. Anyway there wasn\'92t another thing for them to hit till they\'92d get to Mexico once they were in that gulf. Must have been something though when they struck in that rain and wind and he told them to open her tanks. Nobody could have been on deck in that blow and rain. Everybody must have been below. They couldn\'92t have lived on deck. There must have been some scenes inside all right because you know she settled fast. I saw that wrench go into the sand. The captain couldn\'92t have known it was quicksand when she struck unless he knew these waters. He just knew it wasn\'92t rock. He must have seen it all up in the bridge. He must have known what it was about when she settled. I wonder how fast she made it. I wonder if the mate was there with him. Do you think they stayed inside the bridge or do you think they took it outside? They never found any bodies. Not a one. Nobody floating. They float a long way with life belts too. They must have took it inside. Well, the Greeks got it all. Everything. They must have come fast all right. They picked her clean. First there was the birds, then me, then the Greeks, and even the birds got more out of her than I did. A Clean, Well-Lighted Place IT WAS LATE AND EVERY ONE HAD LEFT the caf\'e9 except an old man who sat in the shadow the leaves of the tree made against the electric light. In the day time the street was dusty, but at night the dew settled the dust and the old man liked to sit late because he was deaf and now at night it was quiet and he felt the difference. The two waiters inside the caf\'e9 knew that the old man was a little drunk, and while he was a good client they knew that if he became too drunk he would leave without paying, so they kept watch on him. \'93Last week he tried to commit suicide,\'94 one waiter said. \'93Why?\'94 \'93He was in despair.\'94 \'93What about?\'94 \'93Nothing.\'94 \'93How do you know it was nothing?\'94 \'93He has plenty of money.\'94 They sat together at a table that was close against the wall near the door of the caf\'e9 and looked at the terrace where the tables were all empty except where the old man sat in the shadow of the leaves of the tree that moved slightly in the wind. A girl and a soldier went by in the street. The street light shone on the brass number on his collar. The girl wore no head covering and hurried beside him. \'93The guard will pick him up,\'94 one waiter said. \'93What does it matter if he gets what he\'92s after?\'94 \'93He had better get off the street now. The guard will get him. They went by five minutes ago.\'94 The old man sitting in the shadow rapped on his saucer with his glass. The younger waiter went over to him. \'93What do you want?\'94 The old man looked at him. \'93Another brandy,\'94 he said. \'93You\'92ll be drunk,\'94 the waiter said. The old man looked at him. The waiter went away. \'93He\'92ll stay all night,\'94 he said to his colleague. \'93I\'92m sleepy now. I never get into bed before three o\'92clock. He should have killed himself last week.\'94 The waiter took the brandy bottle and another saucer from the counter inside the caf\'e9 and marched out to the old man\'92s table. He put down the saucer and poured the glass full of brandy. \'93You should have killed yourself last week,\'94 he said to the deaf man. The old man motioned with his finger. \'93A little more,\'94 he said. The waiter poured on into the glass so that the brandy slopped over and ran down the stem into the top saucer of the pile. \'93Thank you,\'94 the old man said. The waiter took the bottle back inside the caf\'e9. He sat down at the table with his colleague again. \'93He\'92s drunk now,\'94 he said. \'93He\'92s drunk every night.\'94 \'93What did he want to kill himself for?\'94 \'93How should I know.\'94 \'93How did he do it?\'94 \'93He hung himself with a rope.\'94 \'93Who cut him down?\'94 \'93His niece.\'94 \'93Why did they do it?\'94 \'93Fear for his soul.\'94 \'93How much money has he got?\'94 \'93He\'92s got plenty.\'94 \'93He must be eighty years old.\'94 \'93Anyway I should say he was eighty.\'94 \'93I wish he would go home. I never get to bed before three o\'92clock. What kind of hour is that to go to bed?\'94 \'93He stays up because he likes it.\'94 \'93He\'92s lonely. I\'92m not lonely. I have a wife waiting in bed for me.\'94 \'93He had a wife once too.\'94 \'93A wife would be no good to him now.\'94 \'93You can\'92t tell. He might be better with a wife.\'94 \'93His niece looks after him. You said she cut him down.\'94 \'93I know.\'94 \'93I wouldn\'92t want to be that old. An old man is a nasty thing.\'94 \'93Not always. This old man is clean. He drinks without spilling. Even now, drunk. Look at him.\'94 \'93I don\'92t want to look at him. I wish he would go home. He has no regard for those who must work.\'94 The old man looked from his glass across the square, then over at the waiters. \'93Another brandy,\'94 he said, pointing to his glass. The waiter who was in a hurry came over. \'93Finished,\'94 he said, speaking with that omission of syntax stupid people employ when talking to drunken people or foreigners. \'93No more tonight. Close now.\'94 \'93Another,\'94 said the old man. \'93No. Finished.\'94 The waiter wiped the edge of the table with a towel and shook his head. The old man stood up, slowly counted the saucers, took a leather coin purse from his pocket and paid for the drinks, leaving half a peseta tip. The waiter watched him go down the street, a very old man walking unsteadily but with dignity. \'93Why didn\'92t you let him stay and drink?\'94 the unhurried waiter asked. They were putting up the shutters. \'93It is not half-past two.\'94 \'93I want to go home to bed.\'94 \'93What is an hour?\'94 \'93More to me than to him.\'94 \'93An hour is the same.\'94 \'93You talk like an old man yourself. He can buy a bottle and drink at home.\'94 \'93It\'92s not the same.\'94 \'93No, it is not,\'94 agreed the waiter with a wife. He did not wish to be unjust. He was only in a hurry. \'93And you? You have no fear of going home before your usual hour?\'94 \'93Are you trying to insult me?\'94 \'93No, hombre, only to make a joke.\'94 \'93No,\'94 the waiter who was in a hurry said, rising from pulling down the metal shutters. \'93I have confidence. I am all confidence.\'94 \'93You have youth, confidence, and a job,\'94 the older waiter said. \'93You have everything.\'94 \'93And what do you lack?\'94 \'93Everything but work.\'94 \'93You have everything I have.\'94 \'93No. I have never had confidence and I am not young.\'94 \'93Come on. Stop talking nonsense and lock up.\'94 \'93I am of those who like to stay late at the caf\'e9,\'94 the older waiter said. \'93With all those who do not want to go to bed. With all those who need a light for the night.\'94 \'93I want to go home and into bed.\'94 \'93We are of two different kinds,\'94 the older waiter said. He was now dressed to go home. \'93It is not only a question of youth and confidence although those things are very beautiful. Each night I am reluctant to close up because there may be some one who needs the caf\'e9.\'94 \'93Hombre, there are bodegas open all night long.\'94 \'93You do not understand. This is a clean and pleasant caf\'e9. It is well lighted. The light is very good and also, now, there are shadows of the leaves.\'94 \'93Good night,\'94 said the younger waiter. \'93Good night,\'94 the other said. Turning off the electric light he continued the conversation with himself. It is the light of course but it is necessary that the place be clean and pleasant. You do not want music. Certainly you do not want music. Nor can you stand before a bar with dignity although that is all that is provided for these hours. What did he fear? It was not fear or dread. It was a nothing that he knew too well. It was all a nothing and a man was nothing too. It was only that and light was all it needed and a certain cleanness and order. Some lived in it and never felt it but he knew it all was nada y pues nada y nada y pues nada. Our nada who art in nada, nada be thy name thy kingdom nada thy will be nada in nada as it is in nada. Give us this nada our daily nada and nada us our nada as we nada our nadas and nada us not into nada but deliver us from nada; pues nada. Hail nothing full of nothing, nothing is with thee. He smiled and stood before a bar with a shining steam pressure coffee machine. \'93What\'92s yours?\'94 asked the barman. \'93Nada.\'94 \'93Otro loco m \'e1s,\'94 said the barman and turned away. \'93A little cup,\'94 said the waiter. The barman poured it for him. \'93The light is very bright and pleasant but the bar is unpolished,\'94 the waiter said. The barman looked at him but did not answer. It was too late at night for conversation. \'93You want another copita?\'94 the barman asked. \'93No, thank you,\'94 said the waiter and went out. He disliked bars and bodegas. A clean, welllighted caf\'e9 was a very different thing. Now, without thinking further, he would go home to his room. He would lie in the bed and finally, with daylight, he would go to sleep. After all, he said to himself, it is probably only insomnia. Many must have it. The Light of the World WHEN HE SAW US COME IN THE DOOR the bartender looked up and then reached over and put the glass covers on the two free-lunch bowls. \'93Give me a beer,\'94 I said. He drew it, cut the top off with the spatula and then held the glass in his hand. I put the nickel on the wood and he slid the beer toward me. \'93What\'92s yours?\'94 he said to Tom. \'93Beer.\'94 He drew that beer and cut it off and when he saw the money he pushed the beer across to Tom. \'93What\'92s the matter?\'94 Tom asked. The bartender didn\'92t answer him. He just looked over our heads and said, \'93What\'92s yours?\'94 to a man who\'92d come in. \'93Rye,\'94 the man said. The bartender put out the bottle and glass and a glass of water. Tom reached over and took the glass off the free-lunch bowl. It was a bowl of pickled pig\'92s feet and there was a wooden thing that worked like a scissors, with two wooden forks at the end to pick them up with. \'93No,\'94 said the bartender and put the glass cover back on the bowl. Tom held the wooden scissors fork in his hand. \'93Put it back,\'94 said the bartender. \'93You know where,\'94 said Tom. The bartender reached a hand forward under the bar, watching us both. I put fifty cents on the wood and he straightened up. \'93What was yours?\'94 he said. \'93Beer,\'94 I said, and before he drew the beer he uncovered both the bowls. \'93Your goddam pig\'92s feet stink,\'94 Tom said, and spit what he had in his mouth on the floor. The bartender didn\'92t say anything. The man who had drunk the rye paid and went out without looking back. \'93You stink yourself,\'94 the bartender said. \'93All you punks stink.\'94 \'93He says we\'92re punks,\'94 Tommy said to me. \'93Listen,\'94 I said. \'93Let\'92s get out.\'94 \'93You punks clear the hell out of here,\'94 the bartender said. \'93I said we were going out,\'94 I said. \'93It wasn\'92t your idea.\'94 \'93We\'92ll be back,\'94 Tommy said. \'93No you won\'92t,\'94 the bartender told him. \'93Tell him how wrong he is,\'94 Tom turned to me. \'93Come on,\'94 I said. Outside it was good and dark. \'93What the hell kind of place is this?\'94 Tommy said. \'93I don\'92t know,\'94 I said. \'93Let\'92s go down to the station.\'94 We\'92d come in that town at one end and we were going out the other. It smelled of hides and tan bark and the big piles of sawdust. It was getting dark as we came in, and now that it was dark it was cold and the puddles of water in the road were freezing at the edges. Down at the station there were five whores waiting for the train to come in, and six white men and four Indians. It was crowded and hot from the stove and full of stale smoke. As we came in nobody was talking and the ticket window was down. \'93Shut the door, can\'92t you?\'94 somebody said. I looked to see who said it. It was one of the white men. He wore slagged trousers and lumbermen\'92s rubbers and a mackinaw shirt like the others, but he had no cap and his face was white and his hands were white and thin. \'93Aren\'92t you going to shut it?\'94 \'93Sure,\'94 I said, and shut it. \'93Thank you,\'94 he said. One of the other men snickered. \'93Ever interfere with a cook?\'94 he said to me. \'93No.\'94 \'93You can interfere with this one,\'94 he looked at the cook. \'93He likes it.\'94 The cook looked away from him holding his lips tight together. \'93He puts lemon juice on his hands,\'94 the man said. \'93He wouldn\'92t get them in dishwater for anything. Look how white they are.\'94 One of the whores laughed out loud. She was the biggest whore I ever saw in my life and the biggest woman. And she had on one of those silk dresses that change colors. There were two other whores that were nearly as big but the big one must have weighed three hundred and fifty pounds. You couldn\'92t believe she was real when you looked at her. All three had those changeable silk dresses. They sat side by side on the bench. They were huge. The other two were just ordinary looking whores, peroxide blondes. \'93Look at his hands,\'94 the man said and nodded his head at the cook. The whore laughed again and shook all over. The cook turned and said to her quickly, \'93You big disgusting mountain of flesh.\'94 She just keep on laughing and shaking. \'93Oh, my Christ,\'94 she said. She had a nice voice. \'93Oh, my sweet Christ.\'94 The two other whores, the big ones, acted very quiet and placid as though they didn\'92t have much sense, but they were big, nearly as big as the biggest one. They\'92d have both gone well over two hundred and fifty pounds. The other two were dignified. Of the men, besides the cook and the one who talked, there were two other lumberjacks, one that listened, interested but bashful, and the other that seemed getting ready to say something, and two Swedes. Two Indians were sitting down at the end of the bench and one standing up against the wall. The man who was getting ready to say something spoke to me very low, \'93Must be like getting on top of a hay mow.\'94 I laughed and said it to Tommy. \'93I swear to Christ I\'92ve never been anywhere like this,\'94 he said. \'93Look at the three of them.\'94 Then the cook spoke up. \'93How old are you boys?\'94 \'93I\'92m ninety-six and he\'92s sixty-nine,\'94 Tommy said. \'93Ho! Ho! Ho!\'94 the big whore shook with laughing. She had a really pretty voice. The other whores didn\'92t smile. \'93Oh, can\'92t you be decent?\'94 the cook said. \'93I asked just to be friendly.\'94 \'93We\'92re seventeen and nineteen,\'94 I said. \'93What\'92s the matter with you?\'94 Tommy turned to me. \'93That\'92s all right.\'94 \'93You can call me Alice,\'94 the big whore said and then she began to shake again. \'93Is that your name?\'94 Tommy asked. \'93Sure,\'94 she said. \'93Alice. Isn\'92t it?\'94 she turned to the man who sat by the cook. \'93Alice. That\'92s right.\'94 \'93That\'92s the sort of name Vou\'92d have,\'94 the cook said. \'93It\'92s my real name,\'94 Alice said. \'93What\'92s the other girls\'92 names?\'94 Tom asked. \'93Hazel and Ethel,\'94 Alice said. Hazel and Ethel smiled. They weren\'92t very bright. \'93What\'92s your name?\'94 I said to one of the blondes. \'93Frances,\'94 she said. \'93Frances what?\'94 \'93Frances Wilson. What\'92s it to you?\'94 \'93What\'92s yours?\'94 I asked the other one. \'93Oh, don\'92t be fresh,\'94 she said. \'93He just wants us all to be friends,\'94 the man who talked said. \'93Don\'92t you want to be friends?\'94 \'93No,\'94 the peroxide one said. \'93Not with you.\'94 \'93She\'92s just a spitfire,\'94 the man said. \'93A regular little spitfire.\'94 The one blonde looked at the other and shook her head. \'93Goddamned mossbacks,\'94 she said. Alice commenced to laugh again and to shake all over. \'93There\'92s nothing funny,\'94 the cook said. \'93You all laugh but there\'92s nothing funny. You two young lads; where are you bound for?\'94 \'93Where are you going yourself?\'94 Tom asked him. \'93I want to go to Cadillac,\'94 the cook said. \'93Have you ever been there? My sister lives there.\'94 \'93He\'92s a sister himself,\'94 the man in the slagged trousers said. \'93Can\'92t you stop that sort of thing?\'94 the cook asked. \'93Can\'92t we speak decently?\'94 \'93Cadillac is where Steve Ketchel came from and where Ad Wolgast is from,\'94 the shy man said. \'93Steve Ketchel,\'94 one of the blondes said in a high voice as though the name had pulled a trigger in her. \'93His own father shot and killed him. Yes, by Christ, his own father. There aren\'92t any more men like Steve Ketchel.\'94 \'93Wasn\'92t his name Stanley Ketchel?\'94 asked the cook. \'93Oh, shut up,\'94 said the blonde. \'93What do you know about Steve? Stanley. He was no Stanley. Steve Ketchel was the finest and most beautiful man that ever lived. I never saw a man as clean and as white and as beautiful as Steve Ketchel. There never was a man like that. He moved just like a tiger and he was the finest, free-est spender that ever lived.\'94 \'93Did you know him?\'94 one of the men asked. \'93Did I know him? Did I know him? Did I love him? You ask me that? I knew him like you know nobody in the world and I loved him like you love God. He was the greatest, finest, whitest, most beautiful man that ever lived, Steve Ketchel, and his own father shot him down like a dog.\'94 \'93Were you out on the coast with him?\'94 \'93No. I knew him before that. He was the only man I ever loved.\'94 Every one was very respectful to the peroxide blonde, who said all this in a high stagey way, but Alice was beginning to shake again. I felt it sitting by her. \'93You should have married him,\'94 the cook said. \'93I wouldn\'92t hurt his career,\'94 the peroxide blonde said. \'93I wouldn\'92t be a drawback to him. A wife wasn\'92t what he needed. Oh, my God, what a man he was.\'94 \'93That was a fine way to look at it,\'94 the cook said. \'93Didn\'92t Jack Johnson knock him out though?\'94 \'93It was a trick,\'94 Peroxide said. \'93That big dinge took him by surprise. He\'92d just knocked Jack Johnson down, the big black bastard. That nigger beat him by a fluke\'94 The ticket window went up and the three Indians went over to it. \'93Steve knocked him down,\'94 Peroxide said. \'93He turned to smile at me.\'94 \'93I thought you said you weren\'92t on the coast,\'94 some one said. \'93I went out just for that fight. Steve turned to smile at me and that black son of a bitch from hell jumped up and hit him by surprise. Steve could lick a hundred like that black bastard.\'94 \'93He was a great fighter,\'94 the lumberjack said. \'93I hope to God he was,\'94 Peroxide said. \'93I hope to God they don\'92t have fighters like that now. He was like a god, he was. So white and clean and beautiful and smooth and fast and like a tiger or like lightning.\'94 \'93I saw him in the moving pictures of the fight,\'94 Tom said. We were all very moved. Alice was shaking all over and I looked and saw she was crying. The Indians had gone outside on the platform. \'93He was more than any husband could ever be,\'94 Peroxide said. \'93We were married in the eyes of God and I belong to him right now and always will and all of me is his. I don\'92t care about my body. They can take my body. My soul belongs to Steve Ketchel. By God, he was a man.\'94 Everybody felt terribly. It was sad and embarrassing. Then Alice, who was still shaking, spoke. \'93You\'92re a dirty liar,\'94 she said in that low voice. \'93You never laid Steve Ketchel in your life and you know it.\'94 \'93How can you say that?\'94 Peroxide said proudly. \'93I say it because it\'92s true,\'94 Alice said. \'93I\'92m the only one here that ever knew Steve Ketchel and I come from Mancelona and I knew him there and it\'92s true and you know it\'92s true and God can strike me dead if it isn\'92t true.\'94 \'93He can strike me too,\'94 Peroxide said. \'93This is true, true, true, and you know it. Not just made up and I know exactly what he said to me.\'94 \'93What did he say?\'94 Peroxide asked, complacently. Alice was crying so she could hardly speak from shaking so. \'93He said \'91You\'92re a lovely piece, Alice.\'92 That\'92s exactly what he said.\'94 \'93It\'92s a lie,\'94 Peroxide said. \'93It\'92s true,\'94 Alice said. \'93That\'92s truly what he said.\'94 \'93It\'92s a lie,\'94 Peroxide said proudly. \'93No, it\'92s true, true, true, to Jesus and Mary true.\'94 \'93Steve couldn\'92t have said that. It wasn\'92t the way he talked,\'94 Peroxide said happily. \'93It\'92s true,\'94 said Alice in her nice voice. \'93And it doesn\'92t make any difference to me whether you believe it or not.\'94 She wasn\'92t crying any more and she was calm. \'93It would be impossible for Steve to have said that,\'94 Peroxide declared. \'93He said it,\'94 Alice said and smiled. \'93And I remember when he said it and I was a lovely piece then exactly as he said, and right now I\'92m a better piece than you, you dried up old hot-water bottle.\'94 \'93You can\'92t insult me,\'94 said Peroxide. \'93You big mountain of pus. I have my memories.\'94 \'93No,\'94 Alice said in that sweet lovely voice, \'93you haven\'92t got any real memories except having your tubes out and when you started C. and M. Everything else you just read in the papers. I\'92m clean and you know it and men like me, even though I\'92m big, and you know it, and I never lie and you know it.\'94 \'93Leave me with my memories,\'94 Peroxide said. \'93With my true, wonderful memories.\'94 Alice looked at her and then at us and her face lost that hurt look and she smiled and she had about the prettiest face I ever saw. She had a pretty face and a nice smooth skin and a lovely voice and she was nice all right and really friendly. But my God she was big. She was as big as three women. Tom saw me looking at her and he said, \'93Come on. Let\'92s go.\'94 \'93Good-bye,\'94 said Alice. She certainly had a nice voice. \'93Good-bye,\'94 I said. \'93Which way are you boys going?\'94 asked the cook. \'93The other way from you,\'94 Tom told him. God Rest You Merry, Gentlemen IN THOSE DAYS THE DISTANCES WERE ALL very different, the dirt blew off the hills that now have been cut down, and Kansas City was very like Constantinople. You may not believe this. No one believes this; but it is true. On this afternoon it was snowing and inside an automobile dealer\'92s show window, lighted against the early dark, there was a racing motor car finished entirely in silver with Dans Argent lettered on the hood. This I believed to mean the silver dance or the silver dancer, and, slightly puzzled which it meant but happy in the sight of the car and pleased by my knowledge of a foreign language, I went along the street in the snow. I was walking from the Woolf Brothers\'92 saloon where, on Christmas and Thanksgiving Day, a free turkey dinner was served, toward the city hospital which was on a high hill that overlooked the smoke, the buildings and the streets of the town. In the reception room of the hospital were the two ambulance surgeons Doc Fischer and Doctor Wilcox, sitting, the one before a desk, the other in a chair against the wall. Doc Fischer was thin, sand-blond, with a thin mouth, amused eyes and gambler\'92s hands. Doctor Wilcox was short, dark and carried an indexed book. The Young Doctor\'92s Friend and Guide , which, being consulted on any given subject, told symptoms and treatment. It was also cross-indexed so that being consulted on symptoms it gave diagnoses. Doc Fischer had suggested that any future editions should be further cross-indexed so that if consulted as to the treatments being given, it would reveal ailments and symptoms. \'93As an aid to memory,\'94 he said. Doctor Wilcox was sensitive about this book but could not get along without it. It was bound in limp leather and fitted his coat pocket and he had bought it at the advice of one of his professors who had said, \'93Wilcox, you have no business being a physician and I have done everything in my power to prevent you from being certified as one. Since you are now a member of this learned profession I advise you, in the name of humanity, to obtain a copy of The Young Doctor\'92s Friend and Guide , and use it. Doctor Wilcox. Learn to use it.\'94 Doctor Wilcox had said nothing but he had bought the leather-bound guide that same day. \'93Well, Horace,\'94 Doc Fischer said as I came in the receiving room which smelt of cigarettes, iodoform, carbolic and an overheated radiator. \'93Gentlemen,\'94 I said. \'93What news along the rialto?\'94 Doc Fischer asked. He affected a certain extravagance of speech which seemed to me to be of the utmost elegance. \'93The free turkey at Woolf\'92s,\'94 I answered. \'93You partook?\'94 \'93Copiously.\'94 \'93Many of the confr\'e8res present?\'94 \'93All of them. The whole staff.\'94 \'93Much Yuletide cheer?\'94 \'93Not much.\'94 \'93Doctor Wilcox here has partaken slightly,\'94 Doc Fischer said. Doctor Wilcox looked up at him, then at me. \'93Want a drink?\'94 he asked. \'93No, thanks,\'94 I said. \'93That\'92s all right,\'94 Doctor Wilcox said. \'93Horace,\'94 Doc Fischer said, \'93you don\'92t mind me calling you Horace, do you?\'94 \'93No.\'94 \'93Good old Horace. We\'92ve had an extremely interesting case.\'94 \'93I\'92ll say,\'94 said Doctor Wilcox. \'93You know the lad who was in here yesterday?\'94 \'93Which one?\'94 \'93The lad who sought eunuch-hood.\'94 \'93Yes.\'94 I had been there when he came in. He was a boy about sixteen. He came in with no hat on and was very excited and frightened but determined. He was curly haired and well built and his lips were prominent. \'93What\'92s the matter with you, son?\'94 Doctor Wilcox asked him. \'93I want to be castrated,\'94 the boy said. \'93Why?\'94 Doc Fischer asked. \'93I\'92ve prayed and I\'92ve done everything and nothing helps.\'94 \'93Helps what?\'94 \'93That awful lust.\'94 \'93What awful lust?\'94 \'93The way I get. The way I can\'92t stop getting. I pray all night about it.\'94 \'93Just what happens?\'94 Doc Fischer asked. The boy told him. \'93Listen, boy,\'94 Doc Fischer said. \'93There\'92s nothing wrong with you. That\'92s the way you\'92re supposed to be. There\'92s nothing wrong with that.\'94 \'93It is wrong,\'94 said the boy. \'93It\'92s a sin against purity. It\'92s a sin against our Lord and Saviour.\'94 \'93No,\'94 said Doc Fisher. \'93It\'92s a natural thing. It\'92s the way you are supposed to be and later on you will think you are very fortunate.\'94 \'93Oh, you don\'92t understand,\'94 the boy said. \'93Listen,\'94 Doc Fischer said and he told the boy certain things. \'93No. I won\'92t listen. You can\'92t make me listen.\'94 \'93Please listen,\'94 Doc Fischer said. \'93You\'92re just a goddamned fool,\'94 Doctor Wilcox said to the boy. \'93Then you won\'92t do it?\'94 the boy asked. \'93Do what?\'94 \'93Castrate me.\'94 \'93Listen,\'94 Doc Fischer said. \'93No one will castrate you. There is nothing wrong with your body. You have a fine body and you must not think about that. If you are religious remember that what you complain of is no sinful state but the means of consummating a sacrament.\'94 \'93I can\'92t stop it happening,\'94 the boy said. \'93I pray all night and I pray in the daytime. It is a sin, a constant sin against purity.\'94 \'93Oh, go and\'97\'94 Doctor Wilcox said. \'93When you talk like that I don\'92t hear you,\'94 the boy said with dignity to Doctor Wilcox. \'93Won\'92t you please do it?\'94 he asked Doc Fischer. \'93No,\'94 said Doc Fischer. \'93I\'92ve told you, boy.\'94 \'93Get him out of here,\'94 Doctor Wilcox said. \'93I\'92ll get out,\'94 the boy said. \'93Don\'92t touch me. I\'92ll get out.\'94 That was about five o\'92clock on the day before. \'93So what happened?\'94 I asked. \'93So at one o\'92clock this morning,\'94 Doc Fischer said, \'93we receive the youth self-mutilated with a razor.\'94 \'93Castrated?\'94 \'93No,\'94 said Doc Fisher. \'93He didn\'92t know what castrate meant.\'94 \'93He may die,\'94 Doctor Wilcox said. \'93Why?\'94 \'93Loss of blood.\'94 \'93The good physician here. Doctor Wilcox, my colleague, was on call and he was unable to find this emergency listed in his book.\'94 \'93The hell with you talking that way,\'94 Doctor Wilcox said. \'93I only mean it in the friendliest way. Doctor,\'94 Doc Fischer said, looking at his hands, at his hands that had, with his willingness to oblige and his lack of respect for Federal statutes, made him his trouble. \'93Horace here will bear me out that I only speak of it in the very friendliest way. It was an amputation the young man performed, Horace.\'94 \'93Well, I wish you wouldn\'92t ride me about it,\'94 Doctor Wilcox said. \'93There isn\'92t any need to ride me.\'94 \'93Ride you, Doctor, on the day, the very anniversary, of our Saviour\'92s birth?\'94 \'93Our Saviour? Ain\'92t you a Jew?\'94 Doctor Wilcox said. \'93So I am. So I am. It always is slipping my mind. I\'92ve never given it its proper importance. So good of you to remind me. Your Saviour. That\'92s right. Your Saviour, undoubtedly your Saviour\'97and the ride for Palm Sunday.\'94 \'93You\'92re too damned smart,\'94 Doctor Wilcox said. \'93An excellent diagnosis, Doctor. I was always too damned smart. Too damned smart on the coast certainly. Avoid it, Horace. You haven\'92t much tendency but sometimes I see a gleam. But what a diagnosis\'97and without the book.\'94 \'93The hell with you,\'94 Doctor Wilcox said. \'93All in good time. Doctor,\'94 Doc Fischer said. \'93All in good time. If there is such a place I shall certainly visit it. I have even had a very small look into it. No more than a peek, really. I looked away almost at once. And do you know what the young man said, Horace, when the good Doctor here brought him in? He said, \'91Oh, I asked you to do it. I asked you so many times to do it.\'92\'94 \'93On Christmas Day, too,\'94 Doctor Wilcox said. \'93The significance of the particular day is not important,\'94 Doc Fischer said. \'93Maybe not to you,\'94 said Doctor Wilcox. \'93You hear him, Horace?\'94 Doc Fischer said. \'93You hear him? Having discovered my vulnerable point, my achilles tendon so to speak, the doctor pursues his advantage.\'94 \'93You\'92re too damned smart,\'94 Doctor Wilcox said. The Sea Change \'93ALL RIGHT,\'94 SAID THE MAN. \'93WHAT about it?\'94 \'93No,\'94 said the girl, \'93I can\'92t.\'94 \'93You mean you won\'92t.\'94 \'93I can\'92t,\'94 said the girl. \'93That\'92s all that I mean.\'94 \'93You mean that you won\'92t.\'94 \'93All right,\'94 said the girl. \'93You have it your own way.\'94 \'93I don\'92t have it my own way. I wish to God I did.\'94 \'93You did for a long time,\'94 the girl said. It was early, and there was no one in the caf\'e9 except the barman and these two who sat together at a table in the corner. It was the end of the summer and they were both tanned, so that they looked out of place in Paris. The girl wore a tweed suit, her skin was a smooth golden brown, her blonde hair was cut short and grew beautifully away from her forehead. The man looked at her. \'93I\'92ll kill her,\'94 he said. \'93Please don\'92t,\'94 the girl said. She had very fine hands and the man looked at them. They were slim and brown and very beautiful. \'93I will. I swear to God I will.\'94 \'93It won\'92t make you happy.\'94 \'93Couldn\'92t you have gotten into something else? Couldn\'92t you have gotten into some other jam?\'94 \'93It seems not,\'94 the girl said. \'93What are you going to do about it?\'94 \'93I told you.\'94 \'93No; I mean really.\'94 \'93I don\'92t know,\'94 he said. She looked at him and put out her hand. \'93Poor old Phil.\'94 she said. He looked at her hands, but he did not touch her hand with his. \'93No, thanks,\'94 he said. \'93It doesn\'92t do any good to say I\'92m sorry?\'94 \'93No.\'94 \'93Nor to tell you how it is?\'94 \'93I\'92d rather not hear.\'94 \'93I love you very much.\'94 \'93Yes, this proves it.\'94 \'93I\'92m sorry,\'94 she said, \'93if you don\'92t understand.\'94 \'93I understand. That\'92s the trouble. I understand.\'94 \'93You do,\'94 she said. \'93That makes it worse, of course.\'94 \'93Sure,\'94 he said, looking at her. \'93I\'92ll understand all the time. All day and all night. Especially all night. I\'92ll understand. You don\'92t have to worry about that.\'94 \'93I\'92m sorry,\'94 she said. \'93If it was a man\'97\'94 \'93Don\'92t say that. It wouldn\'92t be a man. You know that. Don\'92t you trust me?\'94 \'93That\'92s funny,\'94 he said. \'93Trust you. That\'92s really funny.\'94 \'93I\'92m sorry,\'94 she said. \'93That\'92s all I seem to say. But when we do understand each other there\'92s no use to pretend we don\'92t.\'94 \'93No,\'94 he said. \'93I suppose not.\'94 \'93I\'92ll come back if you want me.\'94 \'93No. I don\'92t want you.\'94 Then they did not say anything for a while. \'93You don\'92t believe I love you, do you?\'94 the girl asked. \'93Let\'92s not talk rot,\'94 the man said. \'93Don\'92t you really believe I love you?\'94 \'93Why don\'92t you prove it?\'94 \'93You didn\'92t use to be that way. You never asked me to prove anything. That isn\'92t polite.\'94 \'93You\'92re a funny girl.\'94 \'93You\'92re not. You\'92re a fine man and it breaks my heart to go off and leave you\'97\'94 \'93You have to, of course.\'94 \'93Yes,\'94 she said. \'93I have to and you know it.\'94 He did not say anything and she looked at him and put her hand out again. The barman was at the far end of the bar. His face was white and so was his jacket. He knew these two and thought them a handsome young couple. He had seen many handsome young couples break up and new couples form that were never so handsome long. He was not thinking about this, but about a horse. In half an hour he could send across the street to find if the horse had won. \'93Couldn\'92t you just be good to me and let me go?\'94 the girl asked. \'93What do you think I\'92m going to do?\'94 Two people came in the door and went up to the bar. \'93Yes, sir,\'94 the barman took the orders. \'93You can\'92t forgive me? When you know about it?\'94 the girl asked. \'93No.\'94 \'93You don\'92t think things we\'92ve had and done should make any difference in understanding?\'94 \'93\'91Vice is a monster of such fearful mien,\'92\'94 the young man said bitterly, \'93that to be something or other needs but to be seen. Then we something, something, then embrace.\'94 He could not remember the words. \'93I can\'92t quote,\'94 he said. \'93Let\'92s not say vice,\'94 she said. \'93That\'92s not very polite.\'94 \'93Perversion,\'94 he said. \'93James,\'94 one of the clients addressed the barman, \'93you\'92re looking very well.\'94 \'93You\'92re looking very well yourself,\'94 the barman said. \'93Old James,\'94 the other client said. \'93You\'92re fatter, James.\'94 \'93It\'92s terrible,\'94 the barman said, \'93the way I put it on.\'94 \'93Don\'92t neglect to insert the brandy, James,\'94 the first client said. \'93No, sir,\'94 said the barman. \'93Trust me.\'94 The two at the bar looked over at the two at the table, then looked back at the barman again. Towards the barman was the comfortable direction. \'93I\'92d like it better if you didn\'92t use words like that,\'94 the girl said. \'93There\'92s no necessity to use a word like that.\'94 \'93What do you want me to call it?\'94 \'93You don\'92t have to call it. You don\'92t have to put any name to it.\'94 \'93That\'92s the name for it.\'94 \'93No,\'94 she said. \'93We\'92re made up of all sorts of things. You\'92ve known that. You\'92ve used it well enough.\'94 \'93You don\'92t have to say that again.\'94 \'93Because that explains it to you.\'94 \'93All right,\'94 he said. \'93All right.\'94 \'93You mean all wrong. I know. It\'92s all wrong. But I\'92ll come back. I told you I\'92d come back. I\'92ll come back right away.\'94 \'93No, you won\'92t.\'94 \'93I\'92ll come back.\'94 \'93No, you won\'92t. Not to me.\'94 \'93You\'92ll see.\'94 \'93Yes,\'94 he said. \'93That\'92s the hell of it. You probably will.\'94 \'93Of course I will.\'94 \'93Go on, then.\'94 \'93Really?\'94 She could not believe him, but her voice was happy. \'93Go on,\'94 his voice sounded strange to him. He was looking at her, at the way her mouth went and the curve of her cheek bones, at her eyes and at the way her hair grew on her forehead and at the edge of her ear and at her neck. \'93Not really. Oh, you\'92re too sweet,\'94 she said. \'93You\'92re too good to me.\'94 \'93And when you come back tell me all about it.\'94 His voice sounded very strange. He did not recognize it. She looked at him quickly. He was settled into something. \'93You want me to go?\'94 she asked seriously. \'93Yes,\'94 he said seriously. \'93Right away.\'94 His voice was not the same, and his mouth was very dry. \'93Now,\'94 he said. She stood up and went out quickly. She did not look back at him. He watched her go. He was not the same-looking man as he had been before he had told her to go. He got up from the table, picked up the two checks and went over to the bar with them. \'93I\'92m a different man, James,\'94 he said to the barman. \'93You see in me quite a different man.\'94 \'93Yes, sir?\'94 said James. \'93Vice,\'94 said the brown young man, \'93is a very strange thing, James.\'94 He looked out the door. He saw her going down the street. As he looked in the glass, he saw he was really quite a differentlooking man. The other two at the bar moved down to make room for him. \'93You\'92re right there, sir,\'94 James said. The other two moved down a little more, so that he would be quite comfortable. The young man saw himself in the mirror behind the bar. \'93I said I was a different man, James,\'94 he said. Looking into the mirror he saw that this was quite true. \'93You look very well, sir,\'94 James said. \'93You must have had a very good summer.\'94 A Way You\'92ll Never Be THE ATTACK HAD GONE ACROSS THE field, been held up by machine-gun fire from the sunken road and from the group of farm houses, encountered no resistance in the town, and reached the bank of the river. Coming along the road on a bicycle, getting off to push the machine when the surface of the road became too broken, Nicholas Adams saw what had happened by the position of the dead. They lay alone or in clumps in the high grass of the field and along the road, their pockets out, and over them were flies and around each body or group of bodies were the scattered papers. In the grass and the grain, beside the road, and in some places scattered over the road, there was much material: a field kitchen, it must have come over when things were going well; many of the calfskin-covered haversacks, stick bombs, helmets, rifles, sometimes one butt-up, the bayonet stuck in the dirt, they had dug quite a little at the last; stick bombs, helmets, rifles, intrenching tools, ammunition boxes, star-shell pistols, their shells scattered about, medical kits, gas masks, empty gas-mask cans, a squat, tripodded machine gun in a nest of empty shells, full belts protruding from the boxes, the watercooling can empty and on its side, the breech block gone, the crew in odd positions, and around them, in the grass, more of the typical papers. There were mass prayer books, group postcards showing the machine-gun unit standing in ranked and ruddy cheerfulness as in a football picture for a college annual; now they were humped and swollen in the grass; propaganda postcards showing a soldier in Austrian uniform bending a woman backward over a bed; the figures were impressionistically drawn; very attractively depicted and had nothing in common with actual rape in which the woman\'92s skirts are pulled over her head to smother her, one comrade sometimes sitting upon the head. There were many of these inciting cards which had evidently been issued just before the offensive. Now they were scattered with the smutty postcards, photographic; the small photographs of village girls by village photographers, the occasional pictures of children, and the letters, letters, letters. There was always much paper about the dead and the d\'e9bris of this attack was no exception. These were new dead and no one had bothered with anything but their pockets. Our own dead, or what he thought of, still, as our own dead, were surprisingly few, Nick noticed. Their coats had been opened too and their pockets were out, and they showed, by their positions, the manner and the skill of the attack. The hot weather had swollen them all alike regardless of nationality. The town had evidently been defended, at the last, from the line of the sunken road and there had been few or no Austrians to fall back into it. There were only three bodies in the street and they looked to have been killed running. The houses of the town were broken by the shelling and the street had much rubble of plaster and mortar and there were broken beams, broken tiles, and many holes, some of them yellow-edged from the mustard gas. There were many pieces of shell, and shrapnel balls were scattered in the rubble. There was no one in the town at all. Nick Adams had seen no one since he had left Fornaci, although, riding along the road through the over-foliaged country, he had seen guns hidden under screens of mulberry leaves to the left of the road, noticing them by the heat-waves in the air above the leaves where the sun hit the metal. Now he went on through the town, surprised to find it deserted, and came out on the low road beneath the bank of the river. Leaving the town there was a bare open space where the road slanted down and he could see the placid reach of the river and the low curve of the opposite bank and the whitened, sun-baked mud where the Austrians had dug. It was all very lush and over-green since he had seen it last and becoming historical had made no change in this, the lower river. The battalion was along the bank to the left. There was a series of holes in the top of the bank with a few men in them. Nick noticed where the machine guns were posted and the signal rockets in their racks. The men in the holes in the side of the bank were sleeping. No one challenged. He went on and as he came around a turn in the mud bank a young second lieutenant with a stubble of beard and red-rimmed, very blood-shot eyes pointed a pistol at him. \'93Who are you?\'94 Nick told him. \'93How do I know this?\'94 Nick showed him the tessera with photograph and identification and the seal of the third army. He took hold of it. \'93I will keep this.\'94 \'93You will not,\'94 Nick said. \'93Give me back the card and put your gun away. There. In the holster.\'94 \'93How am I to know who you are?\'94 \'93The tessera tells you.\'94 \'93And if the tessera is false? Give me that card.\'94 \'93Don\'92t be a fool,\'94 Nick said cheerfully. \'93Take me to your company commander.\'94 \'93I should send you to battalion headquarters.\'94 \'93All right,\'94 said Nick. \'93Listen, do you know the Captain Paravicini? The tall one with the small mustache who was an architect and speaks English?\'94 \'93You know him?\'94 \'93A little.\'94 \'93What company does he command?\'94 \'93The second.\'94 \'93He is commanding the battalion.\'94 \'93Good,\'94 said Nick. He was relieved to know that Para was all right. \'93Let us go to the battalion.\'94 As Nick had left the edge of the town three shrapnel had burst high and to the right over one of the wrecked houses and since then there had been no shelling. But the face of this officer looked like the face of a man during a bombardment. There was the same tightness and the voice did not sound natural. His pistol made Nick nervous. \'93Put it away,\'94 he said. \'93There\'92s the whole river between them and you.\'94 \'93If I thought you were a spy I would shoot you now,\'94 the second lieutenant said. \'93Come on,\'94 said Nick. \'93Let us go to the battalion.\'94 This officer made him very nervous. The Captain Paravicini, acting major, thinner and more English-looking than ever, rose when Nick saluted from behind the table in the dugout that was battalion headquarters. \'93Hello,\'94 he said. \'93I didn\'92t know you. What are you doing in that uniform?\'94 \'93They\'92ve put me in it.\'94 \'93I am very glad to see you, Nicolo.\'94 \'93Right. You look well. How was the show?\'94 \'93We made a very fine attack. Truly. A very fine attack. I will show you. Look.\'94 He showed on the map how the attack had gone. \'93I came from Fornaci,\'94 Nick said. \'93I could see how it had been. It was very good.\'94 \'93It was extraordinary. Altogether extraordinary. Are you attached to the regiment?\'94 \'93No. I am supposed to move around and let them see the uniform.\'94 \'93How odd.\'94 \'93If they see one American uniform that is supposed to make them believe others are coming.\'94 \'93But how will they know it is an American uniform?\'94 \'93You will tell them.\'94 \'93Oh. Yes, I see. I will send a corporal with you to show you about and you will make a tour of the lines.\'94 \'93Like a bloody politician,\'94 Nick said. \'93You would be much more distinguished in civilian clothes. They are what is really distinguished.\'94 \'93With a homburg hat,\'94 said Nick. \'93Or with a very furry fedora.\'94 \'93I\'92m supposed to have my pockets full of cigarettes and postal cards and such things,\'94 Nick said. \'93I should have a musette full of chocolate. These I should distribute with a kind word and a pat on the back. But there weren\'92t any cigarettes and postcards and no chocolate. So they said to circulate around anyway.\'94 \'93I\'92m sure your appearance will be very heartening to the troops.\'94 \'93I wish you wouldn\'92t,\'94 Nick said. \'93I feel badly enough about it as it is. In principle, I would have brought you a bottle of brandy.\'94 \'93In principle,\'94 Para said and smiled, for the first time, showing yellowed teeth. \'93Such a beautiful expression. Would you like some grappa?\'94 No, thank you,\'94 Nick said. \'93It hasn\'92t any ether in it.\'94 \'93I can taste that still,\'94 Nick remembered suddenly and completely. \'93You know I never knew you were drunk until you started talking coming back in the camions.\'94 \'93I was stinking in every attack,\'94 Nick said. \'93I can\'92t do it,\'94 Para said. \'93I took it in the first show, the very first show, and it only made me very upset and then frightfully thirsty.\'94 \'93You don\'92t need it.\'94 \'93You\'92re much braver in an attack than I am.\'94 \'93No,\'94 Nick said. \'93I know how I am and I prefer to get stinking. I\'92m not ashamed of it.\'94 \'93I\'92ve never seen you drunk.\'94 \'93No?\'94 said Nick. \'93Never? Not when we rode from Mestre to Portogrande that night and I wanted to go to sleep and used the bicycle for a blanket and pulled it up under my chin?\'94 \'93That wasn\'92t in the lines.\'94 \'93Let\'92s not talk about how I am,\'94 Nick said. \'93It\'92s a subject I know too much about to want to think about it any more.\'94 \'93You might as well stay here a while,\'94 Paravicini said. \'93You can take a nap if you like. They didn\'92t do much to this in the bombardment. It\'92s too hot to go out yet.\'94 \'93I suppose there is no hurry.\'94 \'93How are you really?\'94 \'93I\'92m fine. I\'92m perfectly all right.\'94 \'93No. I mean really.\'94 \'93I\'92m all right. I can\'92t sleep without a light of some sort. That\'92s all I have now.\'94 \'93I said it should have been trepanned. I\'92m no doctor but I know that.\'94 \'93Well, they thought it was better to have it absorb, and that\'92s what I got. What\'92s the matter? I don\'92t seem crazy to you, do I?\'94 \'93You seem in top-hole shape.\'94 \'93It\'92s a hell of a nuisance once they\'92ve had you certified as nutty,\'94 Nick said. \'93No one ever has any confidence in you again.\'94 \'93I would take a nap, Nicolo,\'94 Paravicini said. \'93This isn\'92t battalion headquarters as we used to know it. We\'92re just waiting to be pulled out. You oughtn\'92t to go out in the heat now\'97it\'92s silly. Use that bunk.\'94 \'93I might just lie down,\'94 Nick said. Nick lay on the bunk. He was very disappointed that he felt this way and more disappointed, even, that it was so obvious to Captain Paravicini. This was not as large a dugout as the one where that platoon of the class of 1899, just out at the front, got hysterics during the bombardment before the attack, and Para had had him walk them two at a time outside to show them nothing would happen, he wearing his own chin strap tight across his mouth to keep his lips quiet. Knowing they could not hold it when they took it. Knowing it was all a bloody balls\'97if he can\'92t stop crying, break his nose to give him something else to think about. I\'92d shoot one but it\'92s too late now. They\'92d all be worse. Break his nose. They\'92ve put it back to five-twenty. We\'92ve only got four minutes more. Break that other silly bugger\'92s nose and kick his silly ass out of here. Do you think they\'92ll go over? If they don\'92t, shoot two and try to scoop the others out some way. Keep behind them, sergeant. It\'92s no use to walk ahead and find there\'92s nothing coming behind you. Bail them out as you go. What a bloody balls. All right. That\'92s right. Then, looking at the watch, in that quiet tone, that valuable quiet tone, \'93Savoia.\'94 Making it cold, no time to get it, he couldn\'92t find his own after the cave-in, one whole end had caved in; it was that started them; making it cold up that slope the only time he hadn\'92t done it stinking. And after they came back the teleferica house burned, it seemed, and some of the wounded got down four days later and some did not get down, but we went up and we went back and we came down\'97we always came down. And there was Gaby Delys, oddly enough, with feathers on; you called me baby doll a year ago tadada you said that I was rather nice to know tadada with feathers on, with feathers off, the great Gaby, and my name\'92s Harry Pilcer, too, we used to step out of the far side of the taxis when it got steep going up the hill and he could see that hill every night when he dreamed with Sacr\'e9 Coeur, blown white, like a soap bubble. Sometimes his girl was there and sometimes she was with some one else and he could not understand that, but those were the nights the river ran so much wider and stiller than it should and outside of Fossalta there was a low house painted yellow with willows all around it and a low stable and there was a canal, and he had been there a thousand times and never seen it, but there it was every night as plain as the hill, only it frightened him. That house meant more than anything and every night he had it. That was what he needed but it frightened him especially when the boat lay there quietly in the willows on the canal, but the banks weren\'92t like this river. It was all lower, as it was at Portogrande, where they had seen them come wallowing across the flooded ground holding the rifles high until they fell with them in the water. Who ordered that one? If it didn\'92t get so damned mixed up he could follow it all right. That was why he noticed everything in such detail to keep it all straight so he would know just where he was, but suddenly it confused without reason as now, he lying in a bunk at battalion headquarters, with Para commanding a battalion and he in a bloody American uniform. He sat up and looked around; they all watching him. Para was gone out. He lay down again. The Paris part came earlier and he was not frightened of it except when she had gone off with some one else and the fear that they might take the same driver twice. That was what frightened about that. Never about the front. He never dreamed about the front now any more but what frightened him so that he could not get rid of it was that long yellow house and the different width of the river. Now he was back here at the river, he had gone through that same town, and there was no house. Nor was the river that way. Then where did he go each night and what was the peril, and why would he wake, soaking wet, more frightened than he had ever been in a bombardment, because of a house and a long stable and a canal? He sat up; swung his legs carefully down; they stiffened any time they were out straight for long; returned the stares of the adjutant, the signallers and the two runners by the door and put on his clothcovered trench helmet. \'93I regret the absence of the chocolate, the postal cards and cigarettes,\'94 he said. \'93I am, however, wearing the uniform.\'94 \'93The major is coming back at once,\'94 the adjutant said. In that army an adjutant is not a commissioned officer. \'93The uniform is not very correct,\'94 Nick told them. \'93But it gives you the idea. There will be several millions of Americans here shortly.\'94 \'93Do you think they will send Americans down here?\'94 asked the adjutant. \'93Oh, absolutely. Americans twice as large as myself, healthy, with clean hearts, sleep at night, never been wounded, never been blown up, never had their heads caved in, never been scared, don\'92t drink, faithful to the girls they left behind them, many of them never had crabs, wonderful chaps. You\'92ll see.\'94 \'93Are you an Italian?\'94 asked the adjutant. \'93No, American. Look at the uniform. Spagnolini made it but it\'92s not quite correct.\'94 \'93A North or South American?\'94 \'93North,\'94 said Nick. He felt it coming on now. He would quiet down. \'93But you speak Italian.\'94 \'93Why not? Do you mind if I speak Italian? Haven\'92t I a right to speak Italian?\'94 \'93You have Italian medals.\'94 \'93Just the ribbons and the papers. The medals come later. Or you give them to people to keep and the people go away; or they are lost with your baggage. You can purchase others in Milan. It is the papers that are of importance. You must not feel badly about them. You will have some yourself if you stay at the front long enough.\'94 \'93I am a veteran of the Eritrea campaign,\'94 said the adjutant stiffly. \'93I fought in Tripoli.\'94 \'93It\'92s quite something to have met you,\'94 Nick put out his hand. \'93Those must have been trying days. I noticed the ribbons. Were you, by any chance, on the Carso?\'94 \'93I have just been called up for this war. My class was too old.\'94 \'93At one time I was under the age limit,\'94 Nick said. \'93But now I am reformed out of the war.\'94 \'93But why are you here now?\'94 \'93I am demonstrating the American uniform,\'94 Nick said. \'93Don\'92t you think it is very significant? It is a little tight in the collar but soon you will see untold millions wearing this uniform swarming like locusts. The grasshopper, you know, what we call the grasshopper in America, is really a locust. The true grasshopper is small and green and comparatively feeble. You must not, however, make a confusion with the seven-year locust or cicada which emits a peculiar sustained sound which at the moment I cannot recall. I try to recall it but I cannot. I can almost hear it and then it is quite gone. You will pardon me if I break off our conversation?\'94 \'93See if you can find the major,\'94 the adjutant said to one of the two runners. \'93I can see you have been wounded,\'94 he said to Nick. \'93In various places,\'94 Nick said. \'93If you are interested in scars I can show you some very interesting ones but I would rather talk about grasshoppers. What we call grasshoppers that is; and what are, really, locusts. These insects at one time played a very important part in my life. It might interest you and you can look at the uniform while I am talking.\'94 The adjutant made a motion with his hand to the second runner who went out. \'93Fix your eyes on the uniform. Spagnolini made it, you know. You might as well look, too,\'94 Nick said to the signallers. \'93I really have no rank. We\'92re under the American consul. It\'92s perfectly all right for you to look. You can stare, if you like. I will tell you about the American locust. We always preferred one that we called the medium-brown. They last the best in the water and fish prefer them. The larger ones that fly making a noise somewhat similar to that produced by a rattlesnake rattling his rattlers, a very dry sound, have vivid colored wings, some are bright red, others yellow barred with black, but their wings go to pieces in the water and they make a very blowsy bait, while the mediumbrown is a plump, compact, succulent hopper that I can recommend as far as one may well recommend something you gentlemen will probably never encounter. But I must insist that you will never gather a sufficient supply of these insects for a day\'92s fishing by pursuing them with your hands or trying to hit them with a bat. That is sheer nonsense and a useless waste of time. I repeat, gentlemen, that you will get nowhere at it. The correct procedure, and one which should be taught all young officers at every small-arms course if I had anything to say about it, and who knows but what I will have, is the employment of a seine or net made of common mosquito netting. Two officers holding this length of netting at alternate ends, or let us say one at each end, stoop, hold the bottom extremity of the net in one hand and the top extremity in the other and run into the wind. The hoppers, flying with the wind, fly against the length of netting and are imprisoned in its folds. It is no trick at all to catch a very great quantity indeed, and no officer, in my opinion, should be without a length of mosquito netting suitable for the improvisation of one of these grasshopper seines. I hope I have made myself clear, gentlemen. Are there any questions? If there is anything in the course you do not understand please ask questions. Speak up. None? Then I would like to close on this note. In the words of that great soldier and gentleman, Sir Henry Wilson: Gentlemen, either you must govern or you must be governed. Let me repeat it. Gentlemen, there is one thing I would like to have you remember. One thing I would like you to take with you as you leave this room. Gentlemen, either you must govern\'97or you must be governed. That is all, gentlemen. Good-day.\'94 He removed his cloth-covered helmet, put it on again and, stooping, went out the low entrance of the dugout. Para, accompanied by the two runners, was coming down the line of the sunken road. It was very hot in the sun and Nick removed the helmet. \'93There ought to be a system for wetting these things,\'94 he said. \'93I shall wet this one in the river.\'94 He started up the bank. \'93Nicolo,\'94 Paravicini called. \'93Nicolo. Where are you going?\'94 \'93I don\'92t really have to go.\'94 Nick came down the slope, holding the helmet in his hands. \'93They\'92re a damned nuisance wet or dry. Do you wear yours all the time?\'94 \'93All the time,\'94 said Para. \'93It\'92s making me bald. Come inside.\'94 Inside Para told him to sit down. \'93You know they\'92re absolutely no damned good,\'94 Nick said. \'93I remember when they were a comfort when we first had them, but I\'92ve seen them full of brains too many times.\'94 \'93Nicolo,\'94 Para said. \'93I think you should go back. I think it would be better if you didn\'92t come up to the line until you had those supplies. There\'92s nothing here for you to do. If you move around, even with something worth giving away, the men will group and that invites shelling. I won\'92t have it.\'94 \'93I know it\'92s silly,\'94 Nick said. \'93It wasn\'92t my idea. I heard the brigade was here so I thought I would see you or some one else I knew. I could have gone to Zenzon or to San Dona. I\'92d like to go to San Dona to see the bridge again.\'94 \'93I won\'92t have you circulating around to no purpose,\'94 Captain Paravicini said. \'93All right,\'94 said Nick. He felt it coming on again. \'93You understand?\'94 \'93Of course,\'94 said Nick. He was trying to hold it in. \'93Anything of that sort should be done at night.\'94 \'93Naturally,\'94 said Nick. He knew he could not stop it now. \'93You see, I am commanding the battalion,\'94 Para said. \'93And why shouldn\'92t you be?\'94 Nick said. Here it came. \'93You can read and write, can\'92t you?\'94 \'93Yes,\'94 said Para gently. \'93The trouble is you have a damned small battalion to command. As soon as it gets to strength again they\'92ll give you back your company. Why don\'92t they bury the dead? I\'92ve seen them now. I don\'92t care about seeing them again. They can bury them any time as far as I\'92m concerned and it would be much better for you. You\'92ll all get bloody sick.\'94 \'93Where did you leave your bicycle?\'94 \'93Inside the last house.\'94 \'93Do you think it will be all right?\'94 \'93Don\'92t worry,\'94 Nick said. \'93I\'92ll go in a little while.\'94 \'93Lie down a little while, Nicolo.\'94 \'93All right.\'94 He shut his eyes, and in place of the man with the beard who looked at him over the sights of the rifle, quite calmly before squeezing off, the white flash and clublike impact, on his knees, hot-sweet choking, coughing it onto the rock while they went past him, he saw a long, yellow house with a low stable and the river much wider than it was and stiller. \'93Christ,\'94 he said, \'93I might as well go.\'94 He stood up. \'93I\'92m going. Para,\'94 he said. \'93I\'92ll ride back now in the afternoon. If any supplies have come I\'92ll bring them down tonight. If not I\'92ll come at night when I have something to bring.\'94 \'93It is still hot to ride,\'94 Captain Paravicini said. \'93You don\'92t need to worry,\'94 Nick said. \'93I\'92m all right now for quite a while. I had one then but it was easy. They\'92re getting much better. I can tell when I\'92m going to have one because I talk so much.\'94 \'93I\'92ll send a runner with you.\'94 \'93I\'92d rather you didn\'92t. I know the way.\'94 \'93You\'92ll be back soon?\'94 \'93Absolutely.\'94 \'93Let me send\'97\'94 \'93No,\'94 said Nick. \'93As a mark of confidence.\'94 \'93Well, ciao then.\'94 \'93Ciao,\'94 said Nick. He started back along the sunken road toward where he had left the bicycle. In the afternoon the road would be shady once he had passed the canal. Beyond that there were trees on both sides that had not been shelled at all. It was on that stretch that, marching, they had once passed the Terza Savoia cavalry regiment riding in the snow with their lances. The horses\'92 breath made plumes in the cold air. No, that was somewhere else. Where was that? \'93 I \'92 d b e tt e r g e t t o tha t d a mne d b i c yc l e , \'94 N i c k s a i d t o hi ms e l f. \'93 I d o n \'92 t w a nt t o l o s e the w a y t o F o r na c i.\'94 The Mother of a Queen WHEN HIS FATHER DIED HE WAS ONLY A kid and his manager buried him perpetually. That is, so he would have the plot permanently. But when his mother died his manager thought they might not always be so hot on each other. They were sweethearts; sure he\'92s a queen, didn\'92t you know that, of course he is. So he just buried her for five years. Well, when he came back to Mexico from Spain he got the first notice. It said it was the first notice that the five years were up and would he make arrangements for the continuing of his mother\'92s grave. It was only twenty dollars for perpetual. I had the cash box then and I said let me attend to it, Paco. But he said no, he would look after it. He\'92d look after it right away. It was his mother and he wanted to do it himself. Then in a week he got the second notice. I read it to him and I said I thought he had looked after it. No, he said, he hadn\'92t. \'93Let me do it,\'94 I said. \'93It\'92s right here in the cash box.\'94 No, he said. Nobody could tell him what to do. He\'92d do it himself when he got around to it. \'93What\'92s the sense in spending money sooner than necessary?\'94 \'93All right,\'94 I said, \'93but see you look after it.\'94 At this time he had a contract for six fights at four thousand pesos a fight besides his benefit fight. He made over fifteen thousand dollars there in the capital alone. He was just tight, that\'92s all. The third notice came in another week and I read it to him. It said that if he did not make the payment by the following Saturday his mother\'92s grave would be opened and her remains dumped on the common boneheap. He said he would go attend to it that afternoon when he went to town. \'93Why not have me do it?\'94 I asked him. \'93Keep out of my business,\'94 he said. \'93It\'92s my business and I\'92m going to do it.\'94 \'93All right, if that\'92s the way you feel about it,\'94 I said. \'93Do your own business.\'94 He got the money out of the cash box, although then he always carried a hundred or more pesos with him all the time, and he said he would look after it. He went out with the money and so of course I thought he had attended to it. A week later the notice came that they had no response to the final warning and so his mother\'92s body had been dumped on the boneheap; on the public boneheap. \'93Jesus Christ,\'94 I said to him, \'93you said you\'92d pay that and you took money out of the cash box to do it and now what\'92s happened to your mother? My God, think of it! The public boneheap and your own mother. Why didn\'92t you let me look after it? I would have sent it when the first notice came.\'94 \'93It\'92s none of your business. It\'92s my mother.\'94 \'93It\'92s none of my business, yes, but it was your business. What kind of blood is it in a man that will let that be done to his mother? You don\'92t deserve to have a mother.\'94 \'93It is my mother,\'94 he said. \'93Now she is so much dearer to me. Now I don\'92t have to think of her buried in one place and be sad. Now she is all about me in the air, like the birds and the flowers. Now she will always be with me.\'94 \'93Jesus Christ,\'94 I said, \'93what kind of blood have you anyway? I don\'92t want you to even speak to me.\'94 \'93She is all around me,\'94 he said. \'93Now I will never be sad.\'94 At that time he was spending all kinds of money around women trying to make himself seem a man and fool people, but it didn\'92t have any effect on people that knew anything about him. He owed me over six hundred pesos and he wouldn\'92t pay me. \'93Why do you want it now?\'94 he\'92d say. \'93Don\'92t you trust me? Aren\'92t we friends?\'94 \'93It isn\'92t friends or trusting you. It\'92s that I paid the accounts out of my own money while you were away and now I need the money back and you have it to pay me.\'94 \'93I haven\'92t got it.\'94 \'93You have it,\'94 I said. \'93It\'92s in the cash box now and you can pay me.\'94 \'93I need that money for something,\'94 he said. \'93You don\'92t know all the needs I have for money.\'94 \'93I stayed here all the time you were in Spain and you authorized me to pay these things as they came up, all these things of the house, and you didn\'92t send any money while you were gone and I paid over six hundred pesos in my own money and now I need it and you can pay me.\'94 \'93I\'92ll pay you soon,\'94 he said. \'93Right now I need the money badly.\'94 \'93For what?\'94 \'93For my own business.\'94 \'93Why don\'92t you pay me some on account?\'94 \'93I can\'92t,\'94 he said. \'93I need that money too badly. But I will pay you.\'94 He had only fought twice in Spain, they couldn\'92t stand him there, they saw through him quick enough, and he had seven new fighting suits made and this is the kind of thing he was: he had them packed so badly that four of them were ruined by sea water on the trip back and he couldn\'92t even wear them. \'93My God,\'94 I said to him, \'93you go to Spain. You stay there the whole season and only fight two times. You spend all the money you took with you on suits and then have them spoiled by salt water so you can\'92t wear them. That is the kind of season you have and then you talk to me about running your own business. Why don\'92t you pay me the money you owe me so I can leave?\'94 \'93I want you here,\'94 he said, \'93and I will pay you. But now I need the money.\'94 \'93You need it too badly to pay for your own mother\'92s grave to keep your mother buried. Don\'92t you?\'94 I said. \'93I am happy about what has happened to my mother,\'94 he said. \'93You cannot understand.\'94 \'93Thank Christ I can\'92t,\'94 I said. \'93You pay me what you owe me or I will take it out of the cash box.\'94 \'93I will keep the cash box myself,\'94 he said. \'93No, you won\'92t,\'94 I said. That very afternoon he came to me with a punk, some fellow from his own town who was broke, and said, \'93Here is a paisano who needs money to go home because his mother is very sick.\'94 This fellow was just a punk, you understand, a nobody he\'92d never seen before, but from his home town, and he wanted to be the big, generous matador with a fellow townsman. \'93Give him fifty pesos from the cash box,\'94 he told me. \'93You just told me you had no money to pay me,\'94 I said. \'93And now you want to give fifty pesos to this punk.\'94 \'93He is a fellow townsman,\'94 he said, \'93and he is in distress.\'94 \'93You bitch,\'94 I said. I gave him the key of the cash box. \'93Get it yourself. I\'92m going to town.\'94 \'93Don\'92t be angry,\'94 he said. \'93I\'92m going to pay you.\'94 I got the car out to go to town. It was his car but he knew I drove it better than he did. Everything he did I could do better. He knew it. He couldn\'92t even read and write. I was going to see somebody and see what I could do about making him pay me. He came out and said, \'93I\'92m coming with you and I\'92m going to pay you. We are good friends. There is no need to quarrel.\'94 We drove into the city and I was driving. Just before we came into the town he pulled out twenty pesos. \'93Here\'92s the money,\'94 he said. \'93You motherless bitch,\'94 I said to him and told him what he could do with the money. \'93You give fifty pesos to that punk and then offer me twenty when you owe me six hundred. I wouldn\'92t take a nickel from you. You know what you can do with it.\'94 I got out of the car without a peso in my pocket and I didn\'92t know where I was going to sleep that night. Later I went out with a friend and got my things from his place. I never spoke to him again until this year. I met him walking with three friends in the evening on the way to the Callao cinema in the Gran Via in Madrid. He put his hand out to me. \'93Hello Roger, old friend,\'94 he said to me. \'93How are you? People say you are talking against me. That you say all sorts of unjust things about me.\'94 \'93All I say is you never had a mother,\'94 I said to him. That\'92s the worst thing you can say to insult a man in Spanish. \'93That\'92s true,\'94 he said. \'93My poor mother died when I was so young it seems as though I never had a mother. It\'92s very sad.\'94 There\'92s a queen for you. You can\'92t touch them. Nothing, nothing can touch them. They spend money on themselves or for vanity, but they never pay. Try to get one to pay. I told him what I thought of him right there on the Gran Via, in front of three friends, but he speaks to me now when I meet him as though we were friends. What kind of blood is it that makes a man like that? One Reader Writes SHE SAT AT THE TABLE IN HER BEDROOM with a newspaper folded open before her and only stopping to look out of the window at the snow which was falling and melting on the roof as it fell. She wrote this letter, writing it steadily with no necessity to cross out or rewrite anything. Roanoke, Virginia February 6, 1933 Dear Doctor\'97 May I write you for some very important advice\'97I have a decision to make and don\'92t know just whom to trust most I dare not ask my parents\'97and so I come to you\'97and only because I need not see you, can I confide in you even. Now here is the situation\'97I married a man in U. S. service in 1929 and that same year he was sent to China, Shanghai\'97he staid three years\'97and came home\'97he was discharged from the service some few months ago\'97and went to his mother\'92s home in Helena, Arkansas. He wrote for me to come home\'97I went, and found he is taking a course of injections and I naturally ask, and found he is being treated for I don\'92t know how to spell the word but it sound like this \'93sifilus\'94\'97Do you know what I mean\'97now tell me will it ever be safe for me to live with him again\'97I did not come in close contact with him at any time since his return from China. He assures me he will be OK after this doctor finishes with him\'97Do you think it right\'97I often heard my Father say one could well wish themselves dead if once they became a victim of that malady\'97I believe my Father but want to believe my Husband most\'97Please, please tell me what to do\'97I have a daughter born while her Father was in China\'97 Thanking you and trusting wholly in your advice I am and signed her name. Maybe he can tell me what\'92s right to do, she said to herself. Maybe he can tell me. In the picture in the paper he looks like he\'92d know. He looks smart, all right. Every day he tells somebody what to do. He ought to know. I want to do whatever is right. It\'92s such a long time though. It\'92s a long time. And it\'92s been a long time. My Christ, it\'92s been a long time. He had to go wherever they sent him, I know, but I don\'92t know what he had to get it for. Oh, I wish to Christ he wouldn\'92t have got it. I don\'92t care what he did to get it. But I wish to Christ he hadn\'92t ever got it. It does seem like he didn\'92t have to have got it. I don\'92t know what to do. I wish to Christ he hadn\'92t got any kind of malady. I don\'92t know why he had to get a malady. Homage to Switzerland PART I PORTRAIT OF MR. WHEELER IN MONTREUX INSIDE THE STATION CAFE IT WAS WARM and light. The wood of the tables shone from wiping and there were baskets of pretzels in glazed paper sacks. The chairs were carved, but the seats were worn and comfortable. There was a carved wooden clock on the wall and a bar at the far end of the room. Outside the window it was snowing. Two of the station porters sat drinking new wine at the table under the clock. Another porter came in and said the Simplon-Orient Express was an hour late at Saint-Maurice. He went out. The waitress came over to Mr. Wheeler\'92s table. \'93The Express is an hour late, sir,\'94 she said. \'93Can I bring you some coffee?\'94 \'93If you think it won\'92t keep me awake.\'94 \'93Please?\'94 asked the waitress. \'93Bring me some,\'94 said Mr. Wheeler. \'93Thank you.\'94 She brought the coffee from the kitchen and Mr. Wheeler looked out the window at the snow falling in the light from the station platform. \'93Do you speak other languages besides English?\'94 he asked the waitress. \'93Oh, yes, sir. I speak German and French and the dialects.\'94 \'93Would you like a drink of something?\'94 \'93Oh, no, sir. It is not permitted to drink in the caf\'e9 with the clients.\'94 \'93You won\'92t take a cigar?\'94 \'93Oh, no, sir. I don\'92t smoke, sir.\'94 \'93That is all right,\'94 said Mr. Wheeler. He looked out of the window again, drank the coffee, and lit a cigarette. \'93Fr\'e4ulein,\'94 he called. The waitress came over. \'93What would you like, sir?\'94 \'93You,\'94 he said. \'93You must not joke me like that.\'94 \'93I\'92m not joking.\'94 \'93Then you must not say it.\'94 \'93I haven\'92t time to argue,\'94 Mr. Wheeler said. \'93The train comes in forty minutes. If you\'92ll go upstairs with me I\'92ll give you a hundred francs.\'94 \'93You should not say such things, sir. I will ask the porter to speak with you.\'94 \'93I don\'92t want a porter,\'94 Mr. Wheeler said. \'93Nor a policeman nor one of those boys that sell cigarettes. I want you.\'94 \'93If you talk like that you must go out. You cannot stay here and talk like that.\'94 \'93Why don\'92t you go away, then? If you go away I can\'92t talk to you.\'94 The waitress went away. Mr. Wheeler watched to see if she spoke to the porters. She did not. \'93Mademoiselle!\'94 he called. The waitress came over. \'93Bring me a bottle of Sion, please.\'94 \'93Yes, sir.\'94 Mr. Wheeler watched her go out, then come in with the wine and bring it to his table. He looked toward the clock. \'93I\'92ll give you two hundred francs,\'94 he said. \'93Please do not say such things.\'94 \'93Two hundred francs is a great deal of money.\'94 \'93You will not say such things!\'94 the waitress said. She was losing her English. Mr. Wheeler looked at her interestedly. \'93Two hundred francs.\'94 \'93You are hateful.\'94 \'93Why don\'92t you go away then? I can\'92t talk to you if you\'92re not here.\'94 The waitress left the table and went over to the bar. Mr. Wheeler drank the wine and smiled to himself for some time. \'93Mademoiselle,\'94 he called. The waitress pretended not to hear him. \'93Mademoiselle,\'94 he called again. The waitress came over. \'93You wish something?\'94 \'93Very much. I\'92ll give you three hundred francs.\'94 \'93You are hateful.\'94 \'93Three hundred francs Swiss.\'94 She went away and Mr. Wheeler looked after her. A porter opened the door. He was the one who had Mr. Wheeler\'92s bags in his charge. \'93The train is coming, sir,\'94 he said in French. Mr. Wheeler stood up. \'93Mademoiselle,\'94 he called. The waitress came toward the table. \'93How much is the wine?\'94 \'93Seven francs.\'94 Mr. Wheeler counted out eight francs and left them on the table. He put on his coat and followed the porter onto the platform where the snow was falling. \'93Au revoir, Mademoiselle,\'94 he said. The waitress watched him go. He\'92s ugly, she thought, ugly and hateful. Three hundred francs for a thing that is nothing to do. How many times have I done that for nothing. And no place to go here. If he had sense he would know there was no place. No time and no place to go. Three hundred francs to do that. What people those Americans. Standing on the cement platform beside his bags, looking down the rails toward the headlight of the train coming through the snow, Mr. Wheeler was thinking that it was very inexpensive sport. He had only spent, actually, aside from the dinner, seven francs for a bottle of wine and a franc for the tip. Seventy-five centimes would have been better. He would have felt better now if the tip had been seventy-five centimes. One franc Swiss is five francs French. Mr. Wheeler was headed for Paris. He was very careful about money and did not care for women. He had been in that station before and he knew there was no upstairs to go to. Mr. Wheeler never took chances. PART II MR. JOHNSON TALKS ABOUT IT AT VEVEY Inside the station caf\'e9 it was warm and light; the tables were shiny from wiping and on some there were red and white striped table cloths; and there were blue and white striped table cloths on the others and on all of them baskets with pretzels in glazed paper sacks. The chairs were carved but the wood seats were worn and comfortable. There was a clock on the wall, a zinc bar at the far end of the room, and outside the window it was snowing. Two of the station porters sat drinking new wine at the table under the clock. Another porter came in and said the Simplon-Orient Express was an hour late at Saint-Maurice. The waitress came over to Mr. Johnson\'92s table. \'93The Express is an hour late, sir,\'94 she said. \'93Can I bring you some coffee?\'94 \'93If it\'92s not too much trouble.\'94 \'93Please?\'94 asked the waitress. \'93I\'92ll take some.\'94 \'93Thank you.\'94 She brought the coffee from the kitchen and Mr. Johnson looked out the window at the snow falling in the light from the station platform. \'93Do you speak other languages besides English?\'94 he asked the waitress. \'93Oh, yes, I speak German and French and the dialects.\'94 \'93Would you like a drink of something?\'94 \'93Oh, no, sir. It is not permitted to drink in the caf\'e9 with the clients.\'94 \'93Have a cigar?\'94 \'93Oh, no, sir,\'94 she laughed. \'93I don\'92t smoke, sir.\'94 \'93Neither do I,\'94 said Johnson. \'93It\'92s a dirty habit.\'94 The waitress went away and Johnson lit a cigarette and drank the coffee. The clock on the wall marked a quarter to ten. His watch was a little fast. The train was due at ten-thirty\'97an hour late meant eleven-thirty. Johnson called to the waitress. \'93Signorina!\'94 \'93What would you like, sir?\'94 \'93You wouldn\'92t like to play with me?\'94 Johnson asked. The waitress blushed. \'93No, sir.\'94 \'93I don\'92t mean anything violent. You wouldn\'92t like to make up a party and see the night life of Vevey? Bring a girl friend if you like.\'94 \'93I must work,\'94 the waitress said. \'93I have my duty here.\'94 \'93I know,\'94 said Johnson. \'93But couldn\'92t you get a substitute? They used to do that in the Civil War.\'94 \'93Oh, no, sir. I must be here myself in the person.\'94 \'93Where did you learn your English?\'94 \'93At the Berlitz school, sir.\'94 \'93Tell me about it,\'94 Johnson said. \'93Were the Berlitz undergraduates a wild lot? What about all this necking and petting? Were there many smoothies? Did you ever run into Scott Fitzgerald?\'94 \'93Please?\'94 \'93I mean were your college days the happiest days of your life? What sort of team did Berlitz have last fall?\'94 \'93You are joking, sir?\'94 \'93Only feebly,\'94 said Johnson. \'93You\'92re an awfully good girl. And you don\'92t want to play with me?\'94 \'93Oh, no, sir,\'94 said the waitress. \'93Would you like me to bring you something?\'94 \'93Yes,\'94 said Johnson. \'93Would you bring me the wine list?\'94 \'93Yes, sir.\'94 Johnson walked over with the wine list to the table where the three porters sat. They looked up at him. They were old men. \'93Wollen Sie trinken?\'94 he asked. One of them nodded and smiled. \'93Oui, monsieur.\'94 \'93You speak French?\'94 \'93Oui, monsieur.\'94 \'93What shall we drink? Connais-vous des champagnes?\'94 \'93Non, monsieur.\'94 \'93Faut les conna\'eetre,\'94 said Johnson. \'93Fr\'e4ulein,\'94 he called the waitress. \'93We will drink champagne.\'94 \'93Which champagne would you prefer, sir?\'94 \'93The best,\'94 said Johnson. \'93Laquelle est le best?\'94 he asked the porters. \'93Le meilleur?\'94 asked the porter who had spoken first. \'93By all means.\'94 The porter took out a pair of gold-rimmed glasses from his coat pocket and looked over the list. He ran his finger down the four typewritten names and prices. \'93Sportsman,\'94 he said. \'93Sportsman is the best.\'94 \'93You agree, gentlemen?\'94 Johnson asked the other porters. The one porter nodded. The other said in French, \'93I don\'92t know them personally but I\'92ve often heard speak of Sportsman. It\'92s good.\'94 \'93A bottle of Sportsman,\'94 Johnson said to the waitress. He looked at the price on the wine card: eleven francs Swiss. \'93Make it two Sportsmen. Do you mind if I sit here with you?\'94 he asked the porter who had suggested Sportsman. \'93Sit down. Put yourself here, please.\'94 The porter smiled at him. He was folding his spectacles and putting them away in their case. \'93Is it the gentleman\'92s birthday?\'94 \'93No,\'94 said Johnson. \'93It\'92s not a f\'eate. My wife has decided to divorce me.\'94 \'93So,\'94 said the porter. \'93I hope not.\'94 The other porter shook his head. The third porter seemed a little deaf. \'93It is doubtless a common experience,\'94 said Johnson, \'93like the first visit to the dentist or the first time a girl is unwell, but I have been upset.\'94 \'93It is understandable,\'94 said the oldest porter. \'93I understand it.\'94 \'93None of you gentlemen is divorced?\'94 Johnson asked. He had stopped clowning with the language and was speaking good French now and had been for some time. \'93No,\'94 said the porter who had ordered Sportsman. \'93They don\'92t divorce much here. There are gentlemen who are divorced but not many.\'94 \'93With us,\'94 said Johnson, \'93it\'92s different. Practically every one is divorced.\'94 \'93That\'92s true,\'94 the porter confirmed. \'93I\'92ve read it in the paper.\'94 \'93I myself am somewhat in retard,\'94 Johnson went on. \'93This is the first time I have been divorced. I am thirty-five.\'94 \'93Mais vous \'eates encore jeune,\'94 said the porter. He explained to the two others. \'93Monsieur n\'92a que trente-cinq ans.\'94 The other porters nodded. \'93He\'92s very young,\'94 said one. \'93And it is really the first time you\'92ve been divorced?\'94 asked the porter. \'93Absolutely,\'94 said Johnson. \'93Please open the wine, mademoiselle.\'94 \'93And is it very expensive?\'94 \'93Ten thousand francs.\'94 \'93Swiss money?\'94 \'93No, French money.\'94 \'93Oh, yes. Two thousand francs Swiss. All the same it\'92s not cheap.\'94 \'93No.\'94 \'93And why does one do it?\'94 \'93One is asked to.\'94 \'93But why do they ask that?\'94 \'93To marry someone else.\'94 \'93But it\'92s idiotic.\'94 \'93I agree with you,\'94 said Johnson. The waitress filled the four glasses. They all raised them. \'93Prosit,\'94 said Johnson. \'93A votre sant\'e9, monsieur,\'94 said the porter. The other two porters said \'93Salut.\'94 The champagne tasted like sweet pink cider. \'93Is it a system always to respond in a different language in Switzerland?\'94 Johnson asked. \'93No,\'94 said the porter. \'93French is more cultivated. Besides, this is La Suisse romande.\'94 \'93But you speak German?\'94 \'93Yes. Where I come from they speak German.\'94 \'93I see,\'94 said Johnson, \'93and you say you have never been divorced?\'94 \'93No. It would be too expensive. Besides I have never married.\'94 \'93Ah,\'94 said Johnson. \'93And these other gentlemen?\'94 \'93They are married.\'94 \'93You like being married?\'94 Johnson asked one of the porters. \'93What?\'94 \'93You like the married state?\'94 \'93Oui. C\'92est normale.\'94 \'93Exactly,\'94 said Johnson. \'93Et vous, monsieur?\'94 \'93\'c7a va,\'94 said the other porter. \'93Pour moi,\'94 said Johnson, \'93\'e7a ne va pas.\'94 \'93Monsieur is going to divorce,\'94 the first porter explained. \'93Oh,\'94 said the second porter. \'93Ah ha,\'94 the third porter said. \'93Well,\'94 said Johnson, \'93the subject seems to be exhausted. You\'92re not interested in my troubles,\'94 he addressed the first porter. \'93But, yes,\'94 said the porter. \'93Well, let\'92s talk about something else.\'94 \'93As you wish.\'94 \'93What can we talk about?\'94 \'93You do the sport?\'94 \'93No,\'94 said Johnson. \'93My wife does, though.\'94 \'93What do you do for amusement?\'94 \'93I am a writer.\'94 \'93Does that make much money?\'94 \'93No. But later on when you get known it does.\'94 \'93It is interesting.\'94 \'93No,\'94 said Johnson, \'93it is not interesting. I am sorry gentlemen, but I have to leave you. Will you please drink the other bottle?\'94 \'93But the train does not come for three-quarters of an hour.\'94 \'93I know,\'94 said Johnson. The waitress came and he paid for the wine and his dinner. \'93You\'92re going out, sir?\'94 she asked. \'93Yes,\'94 said Johnson, \'93just for a little walk. I\'92ll leave my bags here.\'94 He put on his muffler, his coat, and his hat. Outside the snow was falling heavily. He looked back through the window at the three porters sitting at the table. The waitress was filling their glasses from the last wine of the opened bottle. She took the unopened bottle back to the bar. That makes them three francs something apiece, Johnson thought. He turned and walked down the platform. Inside the caf\'e9 he had thought that talking about it would blunt it; but it had not blunted it; it had only made him feel nasty. PART III THE SON OF A FELLOW MEMBER AT TERRITET In the station caf\'e9 at Territet it was a little too warm; the lights were bright and the tables shiny from polishing. There were baskets with pretzels in glazed paper sacks on the tables and cardboard pads for beer glasses in order that the moist glasses would not make rings on the wood. The chairs were carved but the wooden seats were worn and quite comfortable. There was a clock on the wall, a bar at the far end of the room, and outside the window it was snowing. There was an old man drinking coffee at a table under the clock and reading the evening paper. A porter came in and said the Simplon-Orient Express was an hour late at Saint-Maurice. The waitress came over to Mr. Harris\'92s table. Mr. Harris had just finished dinner. \'93The Express is an hour late, sir. Can I bring you some coffee?\'94 \'93If you like.\'94 \'93Please?\'94 asked the waitress. \'93All right,\'94 said Mr. Harris. \'93Thank you, sir,\'94 said the waitress. She brought the coffee from the kitchen and Mr. Harris put sugar in it, crunched the lumps with his spoon, and looked out the window at the snow falling in the light from the station platform. \'93Do you speak other languages besides English?\'94 he asked the waitress. \'93Oh, yes, sir. I speak German and French and the dialects.\'94 \'93Which do you like best?\'94 \'93They are all very much the same, sir. I can\'92t say I like one better than another.\'94 \'93Would you like a drink of something or a coffee?\'94 \'93Oh, no, sir, it is not permitted to drink in the caf\'e9 with the clients.\'94 \'93You wouldn\'92t take a cigar?\'94 \'93Oh, no, sir,\'94 she laughed. \'93I don\'92t smoke, sir.\'94 \'93Neither do I,\'94 said Harris, \'93I don\'92t agree with David Belasco.\'94 \'93Please?\'94 \'93Belasco. David Belasco. You can always tell him because he has his collar on backwards. But I don\'92t agree with him. Then, too, he\'92s dead now.\'94 \'93Will you excuse me, sir?\'94 asked the waitress. \'93Absolutely,\'94 said Harris. He sat forward in the chair and looked out of the window. Across the room the old man had folded his paper. He looked at Mr. Harris and then picked up his coffee cup and saucer and walked to Harris\'92s table. \'93I beg your pardon if I intrude,\'94 he said in English, \'93but it has just occurred to me that you might be a member of the National Geographic Society.\'94 \'93Please sit down,\'94 Harris said. The gentleman sat down. \'93Won\'92t you have another coffee or a liqueur?\'94 \'93Thank you,\'94 said the gentleman. \'93Won\'92t you have a kirsch with me?\'94 \'93Perhaps. But you must have it with me.\'94 \'93No, I insist.\'94 Harris called the waitress. The old gentleman took out from an inside pocket of his coat a leather pocket-book. He took off a wide rubber band and drew out several papers, selected one, and handed it to Harris. \'93That is my certificate of membership,\'94 he said. \'93Do you know Frederick J. Roussel in America?\'94 \'93I\'92m afraid I don\'92t.\'94 \'93I believe he is very prominent.\'94 \'93Where does he come from? Do you know what part of the States?\'94 \'93From Washington, of course. Isn\'92t that the headquarters of the Society?\'94 \'93I believe it is.\'94 \'93You believe it is. Aren\'92t you sure?\'94 \'93I\'92ve been away a long time,\'94 Harris said. \'93You\'92re not a member, then?\'94 \'93No. But my father is. He\'92s been a member for a great many years.\'94 \'93Then he would know Frederick J. Roussel. He is one of the officers of the society. You will observe that it is by Mr. Roussel that I was nominated for membership.\'94 \'93I\'92m awfully glad.\'94 \'93I am sorry you are not a member. But you could obtain nomination through your father?\'94 \'93I think so,\'94 said Harris. \'93I must when I go back.\'94 \'93I would advise you to,\'94 said the gentleman. \'93You see the magazine, of course?\'94 \'93Absolutely.\'94 \'93Have you seen the number with the colored plates of the North American fauna?\'94 \'93Yes. I have it in Paris.\'94 \'93And the number containing the panorama of the volcanoes of Alaska?\'94 \'93That was a wonder.\'94 \'93I enjoyed very much, too, the wild animal photographs of George Shiras three.\'94 \'93They were damned fine.\'94 \'93I beg your pardon?\'94 \'93They were excellent. That fellow Shiras\'97\'94 \'93You call him that fellow?\'94 \'93We\'92re old friends,\'94 said Harris. \'93I see. You know George Shiras three. He must be very interesting.\'94 \'93He is. He\'92s about the most interesting man I know.\'94 \'93And do you know George Shiras two? Is he interesting too?\'94 \'93Oh, he\'92s not so interesting.\'94 \'93I should imagine he would be very interesting.\'94 \'93You know, a funny thing. He\'92s not so interesting. I\'92ve often wondered why.\'94 \'93H\'92m,\'94 said the gentleman. \'93I should have thought any one in that family would be interesting.\'94 \'93Do you remember the panorama of the Sahara Desert?\'94 Harris asked. \'93The Sahara Desert? That was nearly fifteen years ago.\'94 \'93That\'92s right. That was one of my father\'92s favorites.\'94 \'93He doesn\'92t prefer the newer numbers?\'94 \'93He probably does. But he was very fond of the Sahara panorama.\'94 \'93It was excellent. But to me its artistic value far exceeded its scientific interest.\'94 \'93I don\'92t know,\'94 said Harris. \'93The wind blowing all that sand and that Arab with his camel kneeling toward Mecca.\'94 \'93As I recall, the Arab was standing holding the camel.\'94 \'93You\'92re quite right,\'94 said Harris. \'93I was thinking of Colonel Lawrence\'92s book.\'94 \'93Lawrence\'92s book deals with Arabia, I believe.\'94 \'93Absolutely,\'94 said Harris. \'93It was the Arab reminded me of it.\'94 \'93He must be a very interesting young man.\'94 \'93I believe he is.\'94 \'93Do you know what he is doing now?\'94 \'93He\'92s in the Royal Air Force.\'94 \'93And why does he do that?\'94 \'93He likes it.\'94 \'93Do you know if he belongs to the National Geographic Society?\'94 \'93I wonder if he does.\'94 \'93He would make a very good member. He is the sort of person they want as a member. I would be very happy to nominate him if you think they would like to have him.\'94 \'93I think they would.\'94 \'93I have nominated a scientist from Vevey and a colleague of mine from Lausanne and they were both elected. I believe they would be very pleased if I nominated Colonel Lawrence.\'94 \'93It\'92s a splendid idea,\'94 said Harris. \'93Do you come here to the caf\'e9 often?\'94 \'93I come here for coffee after dinner.\'94 \'93Are you in the University?\'94 \'93I am not active any longer.\'94 \'93I\'92m just waiting for the train,\'94 said Harris. \'93I\'92m going up to Paris and sail from Havre for the States.\'94 \'93I have never been to America. But I would like to go very much. Perhaps I shall attend a meeting of the society some time. I would be very happy to meet your father.\'94 \'93I\'92m sure he would have liked to meet you but he died last year. Shot himself, oddly enough.\'94 \'93I am very truly sorry. I am sure his loss was a blow to science as well as to his family.\'94 \'93Science took it awfully well.\'94 \'93This is my card,\'94 Harris said. \'93His initials were E. J. instead of E. D. I know he would have liked to know you.\'94 \'93It would have been a great pleasure.\'94 The gentleman took out a card from the pocketbook and gave it to Harris. It read: DR. SIGISMUND WYER, PH.D. Member of the National Geographic Society, Washington, D. C., U. S. A. \'93I will keep it very carefully,\'94 Harris said. A Day\'92s Wait HE CAME INTO THE ROOM TO SHUT THE windows while we were still in bed and I saw he looked ill. He was shivering, his face was white, and he walked slowly as though it ached to move. \'93What\'92s the matter, Schatz?\'94 \'93I\'92ve got a headache.\'94 \'93You better go back to bed.\'94 \'93No. I\'92m all right.\'94 \'93You go to bed. I\'92ll see you when I\'92m dressed.\'94 But when I came downstairs he was dressed, sitting by the fire, looking a very sick and miserable boy of nine years. When I put my hand on his forehead I knew he had a fever. \'93You go up to bed,\'94 I said, \'93you\'92re sick.\'94 \'93I\'92m all right,\'94 he said. When the doctor came he took the boy\'92s temperature. \'93What is it?\'94 I asked him. \'93One hundred and two.\'94 Downstairs, the doctor left three different medicines in different colored capsules with instructions for giving them. One was to bring down the fever, another a purgative, the third to overcome an acid condition. The germs of influenza can only exist in an acid condition, he explained. He seemed to know all about influenza and said there was nothing to worry about if the fever did not go above one hundred and four degrees. This was a light epidemic of flu and there was no danger if you avoided pneumonia. Back in the room I wrote the boy\'92s temperature down and made a note of the time to give the various capsules. \'93Do you want me to read to you?\'94 \'93All right. If you want to,\'94 said the boy. His face was very white and there were dark areas under his eyes. He lay still in the bed and seemed very detached from what was going on. I read aloud from Howard Pyle\'92s Book of Pirates; but I could see he was not following what I was reading. \'93How do you feel, Schatz?\'94 I asked him. \'93Just the same, so far,\'94 he said. I sat at the foot of the bed and read to myself while I waited for it to be time to give another capsule. It would have been natural for him to go to sleep, but when I looked up he was looking at the foot of the bed, looking very strangely. \'93Why don\'92t you try to go to sleep? I\'92ll wake you up for the medicine.\'94 \'93I\'92d rather stay awake.\'94 After a while he said to me, \'93You don\'92t have to stay in here with me, Papa, if it bothers you.\'94 \'93It doesn\'92t bother me.\'94 \'93No, I mean you don\'92t have to stay if it\'92s going to bother you.\'94 I thought perhaps he was a little lightheaded and after giving him the prescribed capsules at eleven o\'92clock I went out for a while. It was a bright, cold day, the ground covered with a sleet that had frozen so that it seemed as if all the bare trees, the bushes, the cut brush and all the grass and the bare ground had been varnished with ice. I took the young Irish setter for a little walk up the road and along a frozen creek, but it was difficult to stand or walk on the glassy surface and the red dog slipped and slithered and I fell twice, hard, once dropping my gun and having it slide away over the ice. We flushed a covey of quail under a high clay bank with overhanging brush and I killed two as they went out of sight over the top of the bank. Some of the covey lit in trees, but most of them scattered into brush piles and it was necessary to jump on the ice-coated mounds of brush several times before they would flush. Coming out while you were poised unsteadily on the icy, springy brush they made difficult shooting and I killed two, missed five, and started back pleased to have found a covey close to the house and happy there were so many left to find on another day. At the house they said the boy had refused to let any one come into the room. \'93You can\'92t come in,\'94 he said. \'93You mustn\'92t get what I have.\'94 I went up to him and found him in exactly the position I had left him, white-faced, but with the tops of his cheeks flushed by the fever, staring still, as he had stared, at the foot of the bed. I took his temperature. \'93What is it?\'94 \'93Something like a hundred,\'94 I said. It was one hundred and two and four tenths. \'93It was a hundred and two,\'94 he said. \'93Who said so?\'94 \'93The doctor.\'94 \'93Your temperature is all right,\'94 I said. \'93It\'92s nothing to worry about.\'94 \'93I don\'92t worry,\'94 he said, \'93but I can\'92t keep from thinking.\'94 \'93Don\'92t think,\'94 I said. \'93Just take it easy.\'94 \'93I\'92m taking it easy,\'94 he said and looked straight ahead. He was evidently holding tight onto himself about something. \'93Take this with water.\'94 \'93Do you think it will do any good?\'94 \'93Of course it will.\'94 I sat down and opened the Pirate book and commenced to read, but I could see he was not following, so I stopped. \'93About what time do you think I\'92m going to die?\'94 he asked. \'93What?\'94 \'93About how long will it be before I die?\'94 \'93You aren\'92t going to die. What\'92s the matter with you?\'94 \'93Oh, yes, I am. I heard him say a hundred and two.\'94 \'93People don\'92t die with a fever of one hundred and two. That\'92s a silly way to talk.\'94 \'93I know they do. At school in France the boys told me you can\'92t live with forty-four degrees. I\'92ve got a hundred and two.\'94 He had been waiting to die all day, ever since nine o\'92clock in the morning. \'93You poor Schatz,\'94 I said. \'93Poor old Schatz. It\'92s like miles and kilometers. You aren\'92t going to die. That\'92s a different thermometer. On that thermometer thirty-seven is normal. On this kind it\'92s ninety-eight.\'94 \'93Are you sure?\'94 \'93Absolutely,\'94 I said. \'93It\'92s like miles and kilometers. You know, like how many kilometers we make when we do seventy miles in the car?\'94 \'93Oh,\'94 he said. But his gaze at the foot of the bed relaxed slowly. The hold over himself relaxed too, finally, and the next day it was very slack and he cried very easily at little things that were of no importance. A Natural History of the Dead IT HAS ALWAYS SEEMED TO ME THAT THE war has been omitted as a field for the observations of the naturalist. We have charming and sound accounts of the flora and fauna of Patagonia by the late W. H. Hudson, the Reverend Gilbert White has written most interestingly of the Hoopoe on its occasional and not at all common visits to Selborne, and Bishop Stanley has given us a valuable, although popular, Familiar History of Birds. Can we not hope to furnish the reader with a few rational and interesting facts about the dead? I hope so. When that persevering traveller, Mungo Park, was at one period of his course fainting in the vast wilderness of an African desert, naked and alone, considering his days as numbered and nothing appearing to remain for him to do but to lie down and die, a small moss-flower of extraordinary beauty caught his eye. \'93Though the whole plant,\'94 says he, \'93was no larger than one of my fingers, I could not contemplate the delicate conformation of its roots, leaves and capsules without admiration. Can that Being who planted, watered and brought to perfection, in this obscure part of the world, a thing which appears of so small importance, look with unconcern upon the situation and suffering of creatures formed after his own image? Surely not. Reflections like these would not allow me to despair; I started up and, disregarding both hunger and fatigue, travelled forward, assured that relief was at hand; and I was not disappointed.\'94 With a disposition to wonder and adore in like manner, as Bishop Stanley says, can any branch of Natural History be studied without increasing that faith, love and hope which we also, every one of us, need in our journey through the wilderness of life? Let us therefore see what inspiration we may derive from the dead. In war the dead are usually the male of the human species although this does not hold true with animals, and I have frequently seen dead mares among the horses. An interesting aspect of war, too, is that it is only there that the naturalist has an opportunity to observe the dead of mules. In twenty years of observation in civil life I had never seen a dead mule and had begun to entertain doubts as to whether these animals were really mortal. On rare occasions I had seen what I took to be dead mules, but on close approach these always proved to be living creatures who seemed to be dead through their quality of complete repose. But in war these animals succumb in much the same manner as the more common and less hardy horse. Most of those mules that I saw dead were along mountain roads or lying at the foot of steep declivities whence they had been pushed to rid the road of their encumbrance. They seemed a fitting enough sight in the mountains where one was accustomed to their presence and looked less incongruous there than they did later, at Smyrna, where the Greeks broke the legs of all their baggage animals and pushed them off the quay into the shallow water to drown. The numbers of broken-legged mules and horses drowning in the shallow water called for a Goya to depict them. Although, speaking literally, one can hardly say that they called for a Goya since there has only been one Goya, long dead, and it is extremely doubtful if these animals, were they able to call, would call for pictorial representation of their plight but, more likely, would, if they were articulate, call for some one to alleviate their condition. Regarding the sex of the dead it is a fact that one becomes so accustomed to the sight of all the dead being men that the sight of a dead woman is quite shocking. I first saw inversion of the usual sex of the dead after the explosion of a munition factory which had been situated in the countryside near Milan, Italy. We drove to the scene of the disaster in trucks along poplar-shaded roads, bordered with ditches containing much minute animal life, which I could not clearly observe because of the great clouds of dust raised by the trucks. Arriving where the munition plant had been, some of us were put to patrolling about those large stocks of munitions which for some reason had not exploded, while others were put at extinguishing a fire which had gotten into the grass of an adjacent field; which task being concluded, we were ordered to search the immediate vicinity and surrounding fields for bodies. We found and carried to an improvised mortuary a good number of these and, I must admit, frankly, the shock it was to find that these dead were women rather than men. In those days women had not yet commenced to wear their hair cut short, as they did later for several years in Europe and America, and the most disturbing thing, perhaps because it was the most unaccustomed, was the presence and, even more disturbing, the occasional absence of this long hair. I remember that after we had searched quite thoroughly for the complete dead we collected fragments. Many of these were detached from a heavy, barbed-wire fence which had surrounded the position of the factory and from the still existent portions of which we picked many of these detached bits which illustrated only too well the tremendous energy of high explosive. Many fragments we found a considerable distance away in the fields, they being carried farther by their own weight. On our return to Milan I recall one or two of us discussing the occurrence and agreeing that the quality of unreality and the fact that there were no wounded did much to rob the disaster of a horror which might have been much greater. Also the fact that it had been so immediate and that the dead were in consequence still as little unpleasant as possible to carry and deal with made it quite removed from the usual battlefield experience. The pleasant, though dusty, ride through the beautiful Lombard countryside also was a compensation for the unpleasantness of the duty and on our return, while we exchanged impressions, we all agreed that it was indeed fortunate that the fire which broke out just before we arrived had been brought under control as rapidly as it had and before it had attained any of the seemingly huge stocks of unexploded munitions. We agreed too that the picking up of the fragments had been an extraordinary business; it being amazing that the human body should be blown into pieces which exploded along no anatomical lines, but rather divided as capriciously as the fragmentation in the burst of a high explosive shell. A naturalist, to obtain accuracy of observation, may confine himself in his observations to one limited period and I will take first that following the Austrian offensive of June, 1918, in Italy as one in which the dead were present in their greatest numbers, a withdrawal having been forced and an advance later made to recover the ground lost so that the positions after the battle were the same as before except for the presence of the dead. Until the dead are buried they change somewhat in appearance each day. The color change in Caucasian races is from white to yellow, to yellow-green, to black. If left long enough in the heat the flesh comes to resemble coal-tar, especially where it has been broken or torn, and it has quite a visible tarlike iridescence. The dead grow larger each day until sometimes they become quite too big for their uniforms, filling these until they seem blown tight enough to burst. The individual members may increase in girth to an unbelievable extent and faces fill as taut and globular as balloons. The surprising thing, next to their progressive corpulence, is the amount of paper that is scattered about the dead. Their ultimate position, before there is any question of burial, depends on the location of the pockets in the uniform. In the Austrian army these pockets were in the back of the breeches and the dead, after a short time, all consequently lay on their faces, the two hip pockets pulled out and, scattered around them in the grass, all those papers their pockets had contained. The heat, the flies, the indicative positions of the bodies in the grass, and the amount of paper scattered are the impressions one retains. The smell of a battlefield in hot weather one cannot recall. You can remember that there was such a smell, but nothing ever happens to you to bring it back. It is unlike the smell of a regiment, which may come to you suddenly while riding in the street car and you will look across and see the man who has brought it to you. But the other thing is gone as completely as when you have been in love; you remember things that happened, but the sensation cannot be recalled. One wonders what that persevering traveller, Mungo Park, would have seen on a battlefield in hot weather to restore his confidence. There were always poppies in the wheat in the end of June and in July, and the mulberry trees were in full leaf and one could see the heat waves rise from the barrels of the guns where the sun struck them through the screens of leaves; the earth was turned a bright yellow at the edge of holes where mustard gas shells had been and the average broken house is finer to see than one that has been shelled, but few travellers would take a good full breath of that early summer air and have any such thoughts as Mungo Park about those formed in His own image. The first thing that you found about the dead was that, hit badly enough, they died like animals. Some quickly from a little wound you would not think would kill a rabbit. They died from little wounds as rabbits die sometimes from three or four small grains of shot that hardly seem to break the skin. Others would die like cats; a skull broken in and iron in the brain, they lie alive two days like cats that crawl into the coal bin with a bullet in the brain and will not die until you cut their heads off. Maybe cats do not die then, they say they have nine lives, I do not know, but most men die like animals, not men. I\'92d never seen a natural death, so called, and so I blamed it on the war and like the persevering traveller, Mungo Park, knew that there was something else; that always absent something else, and then I saw one. The only natural death I\'92ve ever seen, outside of loss of blood, which isn\'92t bad, was death from Spanish influenza. In this you drown in mucus, choking, and how you know the patient\'92s dead is: at the end he turns to be a little child again, though with his manly force, and fills the sheets as full as any diaper with one vast, final, yellow cataract that flows and dribbles on after he\'92s gone. So now I want to see the death of any self-called Humanist *because a persevering traveller like Mungo Park or me lives on and maybe yet will live to see the actual death of members of this literary sect and watch the noble exits that they make. In my musings as a naturalist it has occurred to me that while decorum is an excellent thing some must be indecorous if the race is to be carried on since the position prescribed for procreation is indecorous, highly indecorous, and it occurred to me that perhaps that is what these people are, or were: the children of decorous cohabitation. But regardless of how they started I hope to see the finish of a few, and speculate how worms will try that long preserved sterility; with their quaint pamphlets gone to bust and into foot-notes all their lust. While it is, perhaps, legitimate to deal with these self-designated citizens in a natural history of the dead, even though the designation may mean nothing by the time this work is published, yet it is unfair to the other dead, who were not dead in their youth of choice, who owned no magazines, many of whom had doubtless never even read a review, that one has seen in the hot weather with a half-pint of maggots working where their mouths have been. It was not always hot weather for the dead, much of the time it was the rain that washed them clean when they lay in it and made the earth soft when they were buried in it and sometimes then kept on until the earth was mud and washed them out and you had to bury them again. Or in the winter in the mountains you had to put them in the snow and when the snow melted in the spring some one else had to bury them. They had beautiful burying grounds in the mountains, war in the mountains is the most beautiful of all war, and in one of them, at a place called Pocol, they buried a general who was shot through the head by a sniper. This is where those writers are mistaken who write books called Generals Die in Bed, because this general died in a trench dug in snow, high in the mountains, wearing an Alpine hat with an eagle feather in it and a hole in front you couldn\'92t put your little finger in and a hole in back you could put your fist in, if it were a small fist and you wanted to put it there, and much blood in the snow. He was a damned fine general, and so was General von Behr who commanded the Bavarian Alpenkorps troops at the battle of Caporetto and was killed in his staff car by the Italian rearguard as he drove into Udine ahead of his troops, and the titles of all such books should be Generals Usually Die in Bed, if we are to have any sort of accuracy in such things. In the mountains too, sometimes, the snow fell on the dead outside the dressing station on the side that was protected by the mountain from any shelling. They carried them into a cave that had been dug into the mountainside before the earth froze. It was in this cave that a man whose head was broken as a flower-pot may be broken, although it was all held together by membranes and a skillfully applied bandage now soaked and hardened, with the structure of his brain disturbed by a piece of broken steel in it, lay a day, a night, and a day. The stretcher-bearers asked the doctor to go in and have a look at him. They saw him each time they made a trip and even when they did not look at him they heard him breathing. The doctor\'92s eyes were red and the lids swollen, almost shut from tear gas. He looked at the man twice; once in daylight, once with a flashlight. That too would have made a good etching for Goya, the visit with the flashlight, I mean. After looking at him the second time the doctor believed the stretcher-bearers when they said the soldier was still alive. \'93What do you want me to do about it?\'94 he asked. There was nothing they wanted done. But after a while they asked permission to carry him out and lay him with the badly wounded. \'93No. No. No!\'94 said the doctor, who was busy. \'93What\'92s the matter? Are you afraid of him?\'94 \'93We don\'92t like to hear him in there with the dead.\'94 \'93Don\'92t listen to him. If you take him out of there you will have to carry him right back in.\'94 \'93We wouldn\'92t mind that, Captain Doctor.\'94 \'93No,\'94 said the doctor. \'93No. Didn\'92t you hear me say no?\'94 \'93Why don\'92t you give him an overdose of morphine?\'94 asked an artillery officer who was waiting to have a wound in his arm dressed. \'93Do you think that is the only use I have for morphine? Would you like me to have to operate without morphine? You have a pistol, go out and shoot him yourself.\'94 \'93He\'92s been shot already,\'94 said the officer. \'93If some of you doctors were shot you\'92d be different.\'94 \'93Thank you very much,\'94 said the doctor waving a forceps in the air. \'93Thank you a thousand times. What about these eyes?\'94 He pointed the forceps at them. \'93How would you like these?\'94 \'93Tear gas. We call it lucky if it\'92s tear gas.\'94 \'93Because you leave the line,\'94 said the doctor. \'93Because you come running here with your tear gas to be evacuated. You rub onions in your eyes.\'94 \'93You are beside yourself. I do not notice your insults. You are crazy.\'94 The stretcher-bearers came in. \'93Captain Doctor,\'94 one of them said. \'93Get out of here!\'94 said the doctor. They went out. \'93I will shoot the poor fellow,\'94 the artillery officer said. \'93I am a humane man. I will not let him suffer.\'94 \'93Shoot him then,\'94 said the doctor. \'93Shoot him. Assume the responsibility. I will make a report. Wounded shot by lieutenant of artillery in first curing post. Shoot him. Go ahead shoot him.\'94 \'93You are not a human being.\'94 \'93My business is to care for the wounded, not to kill them. That is for gentlemen of the artillery.\'94 \'93Why don\'92t you care for him then?\'94 \'93I have done so. I have done all that can be done.\'94 \'93Why don\'92t you send him down on the cable railway?\'94 \'93Who are you to ask me questions? Are you my superior officer? Are you in command of this dressing post? Do me the courtesy to answer.\'94 The lieutenant of artillery said nothing. The others in the room were all soldiers and there were no other officers present. \'93Answer me,\'94 said the doctor holding a needle up in his forceps. \'93Give me a response.\'94 \'93F\'97 yourself,\'94 said the artillery officer. \'93So,\'94 said the doctor. \'93So, you said that. All right. All right. We shall see.\'94 The lieutenant of artillery stood up and walked toward him. \'93F\'97 yourself,\'94 he said. \'93F\'97 yourself. F\'97 your mother. F\'97 your sister\'85.\'94 The doctor tossed the saucer full of iodine in his face. As he came toward him, blinded, the lieutenant fumbled for his pistol. The doctor skipped quickly behind him, tripped him and, as he fell to the floor, kicked him several times and picked up the pistol in his rubber gloves. The lieutenant sat on the floor holding his good hand to his eyes. \'93I\'92ll kill you!\'94 he said. \'93I\'92ll kill you as soon as I can see.\'94 \'93I am the boss,\'94 said the doctor. \'93All is forgiven since you know I am the boss. You cannot kill me because I have your pistol. Sergeant! Adjutant! Adjutant!\'94 \'93The adjutant is at the cable railway,\'94 said the sergeant. \'93Wipe out this officer\'92s eyes with alcohol and water. He has got iodine in them. Bring me the basin to wash my hands. I will take this officer next.\'94 \'93You won\'92t touch me.\'94 \'93Hold him tight. He is a little delirious.\'94 One of the stretcher-bearers came in. \'93Captain Doctor.\'94 \'93What do you want?\'94 \'93The man in the dead-house\'94 \'93Get out of here.\'94 \'93Is dead, Captain Doctor. I thought you would be glad to know.\'94 \'93See, my poor lieutenant? We dispute about nothing. In time of war we dispute about nothing.\'94 \'93F\'97 you,\'94 said the lieutenant of artillery. He still could not see. \'93You\'92ve blinded me.\'94 \'93It is nothing,\'94 said the doctor. \'93Your eyes will be all right. It is nothing. A dispute about nothing.\'94 \'93Ayee! Ayee! Ayee!\'94 suddenly screamed the lieutenant. \'93You have blinded me! You have blinded me!\'94 \'93Hold him tight,\'94 said the doctor. \'93He is in much pain. Hold him very tight.\'94 * The reader\'92s indulgence is requested for this mention of an extinct phenomenon. The reference, like all references to fashions, dates the story but it is retained because of its mild historical interest and because its omission would spoil the rhythm. Wine of Wyoming IT WAS A HOT AFTERNOON IN WYOMING; the mountains were a long way away and you could see snow on their tops, but they made no shadow, and in the valley the grain-fields were yellow, the road was dusty with cars passing, and all the small wooden houses at the edge of town were baking in the sun. There was a tree made shade over Fontan\'92s back porch and I sat there at a table and Madame Fontan brought up cold beer from the cellar. A motor-car turned off the main road and came up the side road, and stopped beside the house. Two men got out and came in through the gate. I put the bottles under the table. Madame Fontan stood up. \'93Where\'92s Sam?\'94 one of the men asked at the screen door. \'93He ain\'92t here. He\'92s at the mines.\'94 \'93You got some beer?\'94 \'93No. Ain\'92t got any beer. That\'92s a last bottle. All gone.\'94 \'93What\'92s he drinking?\'94 \'93That\'92s a last bottle. All gone.\'94 \'93Go on, give us some beer. You know me.\'94 \'93Ain\'92t got any beer. That\'92s a last bottle. All gone.\'94 \'93Come on, let\'92s go some place where we can get some real beer,\'94 one of them said, and they went out to the car. One of them walked unsteadily. The motor-car jerked in starting, whirled on the road, and went on and away. \'93Put the beer on the table,\'94 Madame Fontan said. \'93What\'92s the matter, yes, all right. What\'92s the matter? Don\'92t drink off the floor.\'94 \'93I didn\'92t know who they were,\'94 I said. \'93They\'92re drunk,\'94 she said. \'93That\'92s what makes the trouble. Then they go somewhere else and say they got it here. Maybe they don\'92t even remember.\'94 She spoke French, but it was only French occasionally, and there were many English words and some English constructions. \'93Where\'92s Fontan?\'94 \'93Il fait de la vendange. Oh, my God, il est crazy pour le vin.\'94 \'93But you like the beer?\'94 \'93Oui, j\'92aime la bi\'e8re, mais Fontan, il est crazy pour le vin.\'94 She was a plump old woman with a lovely ruddy complexion and white hair. She was very clean and the house was very clean and neat. She came from Lens. \'93Where did you eat?\'94 \'93At the hotel.\'94 \'93Mangez ici. Il ne faut pas manger \'e0 l\'92h\'f4tel ou au restaurant. Mangez ici!\'94 \'93I don\'92t want to make you trouble. And besides they eat all right at the hotel.\'94 \'93I never eat at the hotel. Maybe they eat all right there. Only once in my life I ate at a restaurant in America. You know what they gave me? They gave me pork that was raw!\'94 \'93Really?\'94 \'93I don\'92t lie to you. It was pork that wasn\'92t cooked! Et mon fils il est mari\'e9 avec une am\'e9ricaine, et tout le temps il a mang\'e9 les beans en can.\'94 \'93How long has he been married?\'94 \'93Oh, my God, I don\'92t know. His wife weighs two hundred twenty-five pounds. She don\'92t work. She don\'92t cook. She gives him beans en can.\'94 \'93What does she do?\'94 \'93All the time she reads. Rien que des books. Tout le temps elle stay in the bed and read books. Already she can\'92t have another baby. She\'92s too fat. There ain\'92t any room.\'94 \'93What\'92s the matter with her?\'94 \'93She reads books all the time. He\'92s a good boy. He works hard. He worked in the mines; now he works on a ranch. He never worked on a ranch before, and the man that owns the ranch said to Fontan that he never saw anybody work better on that ranch than that boy. Then he comes home and she feeds him nothing.\'94 \'93Why doesn\'92t he get a divorce?\'94 \'93He ain\'92t got no money to get a divorce. Besides, il est crazy pour elle.\'94 \'93Is she beautiful?\'94 \'93He thinks so. When he brought her home I thought I would die. He\'92s such a good boy and works hard all the time and never run around or make any trouble. Then he goes away to work in the oilfields and brings home this Indienne that weighs right then one hundred eighty-five pounds.\'94 \'93Elle est Indienne?\'94 \'93She\'92s Indian all right. My God, yes. All the time she says sonofabitsh goddam. She don\'92t work.\'94 \'93Where is she now?\'94 \'93Au show.\'94 \'93Where\'92s that?\'94 \'93Au show. Moving pictures. All she does is read and go to the show.\'94 \'93Have you got any more beer?\'94 \'93My God, yes. Sure. You come and eat with us tonight.\'94 \'93All right. What should I bring?\'94 \'93Don\'92t bring anything. Nothing at all. Maybe Fontan will have some of the wine.\'94 That night I had dinner at Fontan\'92s. We ate in the dining-room and there was a clean tablecloth. We tried the new wine. It was very light and clear and good, and still tasted of the grapes. At the table there were Fontan and Madame and the little boy, Andr\'e9. \'93What did you do today?\'94 Fontan asked. He was an old man with small mine-tired body, a drooping gray mustache, and bright eyes, and was from the Centre near Saint-Etienne. \'93I worked on my book.\'94 \'93Were your books all right?\'94 asked Madame. \'93He means he writes a book like a writer. Un roman,\'94 Fontan explained. \'93Pa, can I go to the show?\'94 Andr\'e9 asked. \'93Sure,\'94 said Fontan. Andr\'e9 turned to me. \'93How old do you think I am? Do you think I look fourteen years old?\'94 He was a thin little boy, but his face looked sixteen. \'93Yes. You look fourteen.\'94 \'93When I go to the show I crouch down like this and try to look small.\'94 His voice was very high and breaking. \'93If I give them a quarter they keep it all but if I give them only fifteen cents they let me in all right.\'94 \'93I only give you fifteen cents, then,\'94 said Fontan. \'93No. Give me the whole quarter. I\'92ll get it changed on the way.\'94 \'93Il faut revenir tout de suite apr\'e8s le show,\'94 Madame Fontan said. \'93I come right back.\'94 Andr\'e9 went out the door. The night was cooling outside. He left the door open and a cool breeze came in. \'93Mangez!\'94 said Madame Fontan. \'93You haven\'92t eaten anything.\'94 I had eaten two helpings of chicken and French fried potatoes, three ears of sweet com, some sliced cucumbers, and two helpings of salad. \'93Perhaps he wants some kek,\'94 Fontan said. \'93I should have gotten some kek for him,\'94 Madame Fontan said. \'93Mangez du fromage. Mangez du crimcheez. Vous n\'92avez rien mang\'e9. I ought have gotten kek. Americans always eat kek.\'94 \'93Mais j\'92ai rudement bien mang\'e9.\'94 \'93Mangez! Vous n\'92avez rien mang\'e9. Eat it all. We don\'92t save anything. Eat it all up.\'94 \'93Eat some more salad,\'94 Fontan said. \'93I\'92ll get some more beer,\'94 Madame Fontan said. \'93If you work all day in a book-factory you get hungry.\'94 \'93Elle ne comprend pas que vous \'eates \'e9crivain,\'94 Fontan said. He was a delicate old man who used the slang and knew the popular songs of his period of military service in the end of the 1890\'92s. \'93He writes the books himself,\'94 he explained to Madame. \'93You write the books yourself?\'94 Madame asked. \'93Sometimes.\'94 \'93Oh!\'94 she said. \'93Oh! You write them yourself. Oh! Well, you get hungry if you do that too. Mangez! Je vais chercher de la bi\'e8re.\'94 We heard her walking on the stairs to the cellar. Fontan smiled at me. He was very tolerant of people who had not his experience and worldly knowledge. When Andr\'e9 came home from the show we were still sitting in the kitchen and were talking about hunting. \'93Labor day we all went to Clear Creek,\'94 Madame said. \'93Oh, my God, you ought to have been there all right. We all went in the truck. Tout le monde est all\'e9 dans le truck. Nous sommes partis le dimanche. C\'92est le truck de Charley.\'94 \'93On a mang\'e9, on a bu du vin, de la bi\'e8re, et il y avait aussi un fran\'e7ais qui a apport\'e9 de l\'92absinthe,\'94 Fontan said. \'93Un fran\'e7ais de la Californie!\'94 \'93My God, nous avons chant\'e9. There\'92s a farmer comes to see what\'92s the matter, and we give him something to drink, and he stayed with us awhile. There was some Italians come too, and they want to stay with us too. We sung a song about the Italians and they don\'92t understand it. They didn\'92t know we didn\'92t want them, but we didn\'92t have nothing to do with them, and after a while they went away.\'94 \'93How many fish did you catch?\'94 \'93Tr\'e8s peu. We went to fish a little while, but then we came back to sing again. Nous avons chant\'e9, vous savez.\'94 \'93In the night,\'94 said Madame, \'93toutes les femmes ont dormi dans le truck. Les hommes \'e0 c\'f4t\'e9 du feu. In the night I hear Fontan come to get some more wine, and I tell him, Fontan, my God, leave some for tomorrow. Tomorrow they won\'92 have anything to drink, and then they\'92ll be sorry.\'94 \'93Mais nous avons tout bu,\'94 Fontan said. \'93Et le lendemain il ne reste rien.\'94 \'93What did you do?\'94 \'93Nous avons p\'each\'e9 s\'e9rieusement.\'94 \'93Good trout, all right, too. My God, yes. All the same; half-pound one ounce.\'94 \'93How big?\'94 \'93Half-pound one ounce. Just right to eat. All the same size; half-pound one ounce.\'94 \'93How do you like America?\'94 Fontan asked me. \'93It\'92s my country, you see. So I like it, because it\'92s my country. Mais on ne mange pas tr\'e8s bien. D\'92antan, oui. Mais maintenant, no.\'94 \'93No,\'94 said Madame. \'93On ne mange pas bien.\'94 She shook her head. \'93Et aussi, il y a trop de Polack. Quand j\'e9tais petite ma m\'e8re m\'92a dit, \'91vous mangez comme les Polacks.\'92 Je n\'92ai jamais compris ce que c\'92est qu\'92un Polack. Mais maintenant en Am\'e9rique je comprends. Il y a trop de Polack. Et, my God, ils sont sales, les Polacks.\'94 \'93It is fine for hunting and fishing,\'94 I said. \'93Oui. \'c7a, c\'92est le meilleur. La chasse et la p\'eache,\'94 Fontan said. \'93Qu\'92estce que vous avez comme fusil?\'94 \'93A twelve-gauge pump.\'94 \'93Il est bon, le pump,\'94 Fontan nodded his head. \'93Je veux aller \'e0 la chasse moi-m\'eame,\'94 Andr\'e9 said in his high, little boy\'92s voice. \'93Tu ne peux pas,\'94 Fontan said. He turned to me. \'93Ils sont des sauvages, les boys, vous savez. Ils sont des sauvages. Ils veulent shooter les uns les autres.\'94 \'93Je veux aller tout seul,\'94 Andr\'e9 said, very shrill and excited. \'93You can\'92t go,\'94 Madame Fontan said. \'93You are too young.\'94 \'93Je veux aller tout seul,\'94 Andr\'e9 said shrilly. \'93Je veux shooter les rats d\'92eau.\'94 \'93What are rats d\'92eau?\'94 I asked. \'93You don\'92t know them? Sure you know them. What they call the muskrats.\'94 Andr\'e9 had brought the twenty-two-calibre rifle out from the cupboard and was holding it in his hands under the light. \'93Ils sont des sauvages,\'94 Fontan explained. \'93Ils veulent shooter les uns les autres.\'94 \'93Je veux aller tout seul,\'94 Andr\'e9 shrilled. He looked desperately along the barrel of the gun. \'93Je veux shooter les rats d\'92eau. Je connais beaucoup de rats d\'92eau.\'94 \'93Give me the gun,\'94 Fontan said. He explained again to me. \'93They\'92re savages. They would shoot one another.\'94 Andr\'e9 held tight on to the gun. \'93On peut looker. On ne fait pas de mal. On peut looker.\'94 \'93Il est crazy pour le shooting,\'94 Madame Fontan said. \'93Mais il est trop jeune.\'94 Andr\'e9 put the twenty-two-calibre rifle back in the cupboard. \'93When I\'92m bigger I\'92ll shoot the muskrats and the jack-rabbits too,\'94 he said in English. \'93One time I went out with Papa and he shot a jack-rabbit just a little bit and I shot it and hit it.\'94 \'93C\'92est vrai,\'94 Fontan nodded. \'93Il a tu\'e9 un jack.\'94 \'93But he hit it first,\'94 Andr\'e9 said. \'93I want to go all by myself and shoot all by myself. Next year I can do it.\'94 He went over in a corner and sat down to read a book. I had picked it up when we came into the kitchen to sit after supper. It was a library book\'97Frank on a Gunboat. \'93Il aime les books,\'94 Madame Fontan said. \'93But it\'92s better than to run around at night with the other boys and steal things.\'94 \'93Books are all right,\'94 Fontan said. \'93Monsieur il fait les books.\'94 \'93Yes, that\'92s so, all right. But too many books are bad,\'94 Madame Fontan said. \'93Ici, c\'92est une maladie, les books. C\'92est comme les churches. Ici il y a trop de churches. En France il y a seulement les catholiques et les protestants\'97et tr\'e8s peu de protestants. Mais ici rien que de churches. Quand j\'92\'e9tais venu ici je disais, oh, my God, what are all the churches?\'94 \'93C\'92est vrai,\'94 Fontan said. \'93Il y a trop de churches.\'94 \'93The other day,\'94 Madame Fontan said, \'93there was a little French girl here with her mother, the cousin of Fontan, and she said to me, \'91En Am\'e9rique il ne faut pas \'eatre catholique. It\'92s not good to be catholique. The Americans don\'92t like you to be catholique. It\'92s like the dry law.\'92 I said to her, \'91What you going to be? Heh? It\'92s better to be catholique if you\'92re catholique.\'92 But she said, \'91No, it isn\'92t any good to be catholique in America.\'92 But I think it\'92s better to be catholique if you are. Ce n\'92est pas bon de changer sa religion. My God, no.\'94 \'93You go to the mass here?\'94 \'93No. I don\'92t go in America, only sometimes in a long while. Mais je reste catholique. It\'92s no good to change the religion.\'94 \'93On dit que Schmidt est catholique,\'94 Fontan said. \'93On dit, mais on ne sait jamais,\'94 Madame Fontan said. \'93I don\'92t think Schmidt is catholique. There\'92s not many catholique in America.\'94 \'93We are catholique,\'94 I said. \'93Sure, but you live in France,\'94 Madame Fontan said. \'93Je ne crois pas que Schmidt est catholique. Did he ever live in France?\'94 \'93Les Polacks sont catholiques,\'94 Fontan said. \'93That\'92s true,\'94 Madame Fontan said. \'93They go to church, then they fight with knives all the way home and kill each other all day Sunday. But they\'92re not real catholiques. They\'92re Polack catholiques.\'94 \'93All catholiques are the same,\'94 Fontan said. \'93One catholique is like another.\'94 \'93I don\'92t believe Schmidt is catholique,\'94 Madame Fontan said. \'93That\'92s awful funny if he\'92s catholique. Moi, je ne crois pas.\'94 \'93Il est catholique,\'94 I said. \'93Schmidt is catholique,\'94 Madame Fontan mused. \'93I wouldn\'92t have believed it. My God, il est catholique.\'94 \'93Marie va chercher de la bi\'e8re,\'94 Fontan said. \'93Monsieur a soif\'97moi aussi.\'94 \'93Yes, all right,\'94 Madame Fontan said from the next room. She went downstairs and we heard the stairs creaking. Andr\'e9 sat reading in the corner. Fontan and I sat at the table, and he poured the beer from the last bottle into our two glasses, leaving a little in the bottom. \'93C\'92est un bon pays pour la chasse,\'94 Fontan said. \'93J\'92aime beaucoup shooter les canards.\'94 \'93Mais il y a tr\'e8s bonne chasse aussi en France,\'94 I said. \'93C\'92est vrai,\'94 Fontan said. \'93Nous avons beaucoup de gibier l\'e0-bas.\'94 Madame Fontan came up the stairs with the beer bottles in her hands, \'93Il est catholique,\'94 she said \'93My God, Schmidt est catholique.\'94 \'93You think he\'92ll be the President?\'94 Fontan asked. \'93No,\'94 I said. The next afternoon I drove out to Fontan\'92s, through the shade of the town, then along the dusty road, turning up the side road and leaving the car beside the fence. It was another hot day. Madame Fontan came to the back door. She looked like Mrs. Santa Claus, clean and rosy-faced and whitehaired, and waddling when she walked. \'93My God, hello,\'94 she said. \'93It\'92s hot, my God.\'94 She went back into the house to get some beer. I sat on the back porch and looked through the screen and the leaves of the tree at the heat and, away off, the mountains. There were furrowed brown mountains, and above them three peaks and a glacier with snow that you could see through the trees. The snow looked very white and pure and unreal. Madame Fontan came out and put down the bottles on the table. \'93What you see out there?\'94 \'93The snow.\'94 \'93C\'92est jolie, la neige.\'94 \'93Have a glass, too.\'94 \'93All right.\'94 She sat down on a chair beside me. \'93Schmidt,\'94 she said. \'93If he\'92s the President, you think we get the wine and beer all right?\'94 \'93Sure,\'94 I said. \'93Trust Schmidt.\'94 \'93Already we paid seven hundred fifty-five dollars in fines when they arrested Fontan. Twice the police arrested us and once the government. All the money we made all the time Fontan worked in the mines and I did washing. We paid it all. They put Fontan in jail. Il n\'92a jamais fait de mal \'e0 personne.\'94 \'93He\'92s a good man,\'94 I said. \'93It\'92s a crime.\'94 \'93We don\'92t charge too much money. The wine one dollar a litre. The beer ten cents a bottle. We never sell the beer before it\'92s good. Lots of places they sell the beer right away when they make it, and then it gives everybody a headache. What\'92s the matter with that? They put Fontan in jail and they take seven hundred fifty-five dollars.\'94 \'93It\'92s wicked,\'94 I said. \'93Where is Fontan?\'94 \'93He stays with the wine. He has to watch it now to catch it just right,\'94 she smiled. She did not think about the money any more. \'93Vous savez, il est crazy pour le vin. Last night he brought a little bit home with him, what you drank, and a little bit of the new. The last new. It ain\'92t ready yet, but he drank a little bit, and this morning he put a little bit in his coffee. Dans son caf\'e9, vous savez! Il est crazy pour le vin! Il est comme \'e7a. Son pays est comme \'e7a. Where I live in the north they don\'92t drink any wine. Everybody drinks beer. By where we lived there was a big brewery right near us. When I was a little girl I didn\'92t like the smell of the hops in the carts. Nor in the fields. Je n\'92aime pas les houblons. No, my God, not a bit. The man that owns the brewery said to me and my sister to go to the brewery and drink the beer, and then we\'92d like the hops. That\'92s true. Then we liked them all right. He had them give us the beer. We liked them all right then. But Fontan, il est crazy pour le vin. One time he killed a jack-rabbit and he wanted me to cook it with a sauce with wine, make a black sauce with wine and butter and mushrooms and onion and everything in it, for the jack. My God, I make the sauce all right, and he eat it all and said, \'91La sauce est meilleure que le jack.\'92 Dans son pays c\'92est comme \'e7a. Il y a beaucoup de gibier et de vin. Moi, j\'92aime les pommes de terre, le saucisson, et la bi\'e8re. C\'92est bon, la bi\'e8re. C\'92est tr\'e8s bon pour la sant\'e9.\'94 \'93It\'92s good,\'94 I said. \'93It and wine too.\'94 \'93You\'92re like Fontan. But there was a thing here that I never saw. I don\'92t think you\'92ve ever seen it either. There were Americans came here and they put whiskey in the beer.\'94 \'93No,\'94 I said. \'93Oui. My God, yes, that\'92s true. Et aussi une femme qui a vomis sur la table!\'94 \'93Comment?\'94 \'93C\'92est vrai. Elle a vomis sur la table. Et apr\'e8s elle a vomis dans ses shoes. And afterward they come back and say they want to come again and have another party the next Saturday, and I say no, my God, no! When they came I locked the door.\'94 \'93They\'92re bad when they\'92re drunk.\'94 \'93In the winter-time when the boys go to the dance they come in the cars and wait outside and say to Fontan, \'91Hey, Sam, sell us a bottle wine,\'92 or they buy the beer, and then they take the moonshine out of their pockets in a bottle and pour it in the beer and drink it. My God, that\'92s the first time I ever saw that in my life. They put whiskey in the beer. My God, I don\'92t understand that!\'94 \'93They want to get sick, so they\'92ll know they\'92re drunk.\'94 \'93One time a fellow comes here came to me and said he wanted me to cook them a big supper and they drink one two bottles of wine, and their girls come too, and then they go to the dance. All right, I said. So I made a big supper, and when they come already they drank a lot. Then they put whiskey in the wine. My God, yes. I said to Fontan, \'91On va \'eatre malade!\'92 \'91Oui,\'92 il dit. Then these girls were sick, nice girls too, all-right girls. They were sick right at the table. Fontan tried to take them by the arm and show them where they could be sick all right in the cabinet, but the fellows said no, they were all right right there at the table.\'94 Fontan had come in. \'93When they come again I locked the door. \'91No,\'92 I said. \'91Not for hundred fifty dollars.\'92 My God, no.\'94 \'93There is a word for such people when they do like that, in French,\'94 Fontan said. He stood looking very old and tired from the heat. \'93What?\'94 \'93Cochon,\'94 he said delicately, hesitating to use such a strong word. \'93They were like the cochon. C\'92est un mot tr\'e8s fort,\'94 he apologized, \'93mais vomir sur la table\'97\'94 he shook his head sadly. \'93Cochons,\'94 I said. \'93That\'92s what they are\'97cochons. Salauds.\'94 The grossness of the words was distasteful to Fontan. He was glad to speak of something else. \'93Il y a des gens tr\'e8s gentils, tr\'e8s sensibles, qui viennent aussi,\'94 he said. \'93There are officers from the fort. Very nice men. Good fellas. Everybody that was ever in France they want to come and drink wine. They like wine all right.\'94 \'93There was one man,\'94 Madame Fontan said, \'93and his wife never lets him get out. So he tells her he\'92s tired, and goes to bed, and when she goes to the show he comes straight down here, sometimes in his pyjamas just with a coat over them. \'91Maria, some beer,\'92 he says, \'91for God\'92s sake.\'92 He sits in his pyjamas and drinks the beer, and then he goes up to the fort and gets back in bed before his wife comes home from the show.\'94 \'93C\'92est un original,\'94 Fontan said, \'93mais vraiment gentil. He\'92s a nice fella.\'94 \'93My God, yes, nice fella all right,\'94 Madame Fontan said. \'93He\'92s always in bed when his wife gets back from the show.\'94 \'93I have to go away tomorrow,\'94 I said. \'93To the Crow Reservation. We go there for the opening of the prairie-chicken season.\'94 \'93Yes? You come back here before you go away. You come back here all right?\'94 \'93Absolutely.\'94 \'93Then the wine will be done,\'94 Fontan said. \'93We\'92ll drink a bottle together.\'94 \'93Three bottles,\'94 Madame Fontan said. \'93I\'92ll be back,\'94 I said. \'93We count on you,\'94 Fontan said. \'93Good night,\'94 I said. We got in early in the afternoon from the shooting-trip. We had been up that morning since five o\'92clock. The day before we had had good shooting, but that morning we had not seen a prairiechicken. Riding in the open car, we were very hot and we stopped to eat our lunch out of the sun, under a tree beside the road. The sun was high and the patch of shade was very small. We ate sandwiches and crackers with sandwich filling on them, and were thirsty and tired, and glad when we finally were out and on the main road back to town. We came up behind a prairie-dog town and stopped the car to shoot at the prairie-dogs with the pistol. We shot two, but then stopped, because the bullets that missed glanced off the rocks and the dirt, and sung off across the fields, and beyond the fields there were some trees along a watercourse, with a house, and we did not want to get in trouble from stray bullets going toward the house. So we drove on, and finally were on the road coming down-hill toward the outlying houses of the town. Across the plain we could see the mountains. They were blue that day, and the snow on the high mountains shone like glass. The summer was ending, but the new snow had not yet come to stay on the high mountains; there was only the old sun-melted snow and the ice, and from a long way away it shone very brightly. We wanted something cool and some shade. We were sun-burned and our lips blistered from the sun and alkali dust. We turned up the side road to Fontan\'92s, stopped the car outside the house, and went in. It was cool inside the dining-room. Madame Fontan was alone. \'93Only two bottles beer,\'94 she said. \'93It\'92s all gone. The new is no good yet.\'94 I gave her some birds. \'93That\'92s good,\'94 she said. \'93All right. Thanks. That\'92s good.\'94 She went out to put the birds away where it was cooler. When we finished the beer I stood up. \'93We have to go,\'94 I said. \'93You come back tonight all right? Fontan he\'92s going to have the wine.\'94 \'93We\'92ll come back before we go away.\'94 \'93You go away?\'94 \'93Yes. We have to leave in the morning.\'94 \'93That\'92s too bad you go away. You come tonight. Fontan will have the wine. We\'92ll make a f\'eate before you go.\'94 \'93We\'92ll come before we go.\'94 But that afternoon there were telegrams to send, the car to be gone over\'97a tire had been cut by a stone and needed vulcanizing\'97and, without the car, I walked into the town, doing things that had to be done before we could go. When it was supper-time I was too tired to go out. We did not want a foreign language. All we wanted was to go early to bed. As I lay in bed before I went to sleep, with all the things of the summer piled around ready to be packed, the windows open and the air coming in cool from the mountains, I thought it was a shame not to have gone to Fontan\'92s\'97but in a little while I was asleep. The next day we were busy all morning packing and ending the summer. We had lunch and were ready to start by two o\'92clock. \'93We must go and say good-by to the Fontans,\'94 I said. \'93Yes, we must.\'94 \'93I\'92m afraid they expected us last night.\'94 \'93I suppose we could have gone.\'94 \'93I wish we\'92d gone.\'94 We said good-by to the man at the desk at the hotel, and to Larry and our other friends in the town, and then drove out to Fontan\'92s. Both Monsieur and Madame were there. They were glad to see us. Fontan looked old and tired. \'93We thought you would come last night,\'94 Madame Fontan said. \'93Fontan had three bottles of wine. When you did not come he drank it all up.\'94 \'93We can only stay a minute,\'94 I said. \'93We just came to say good-by. We wanted to come last night. We intended to come, but we were too tired after the trip.\'94 \'93Go get some wine,\'94 Fontan said. \'93There is no wine. You drank it all up.\'94 Fontan looked very upset. \'93I\'92ll go get some,\'94 he said. \'93I\'92ll just be gone a few minutes. I drank it up last night. We had it for you.\'94 \'93I knew you were tired. \'91My God,\'92 I said, \'91they\'92re too tired all right to come,\'92\'94 Madame Fontan said. \'93Go get some wine, Fontan.\'94 \'93I\'92ll take you in the car,\'94 I said. \'93All right,\'94 Fontan said. \'93That way we\'92ll go faster.\'94 We drove down the road in the motor-car and turned up a side road about a mile away. \'93You\'92ll like that wine,\'94 Fontan said. \'93It\'92s come out well. You can drink it for supper tonight.\'94 We stopped in front of a frame house. Fontan knocked on the door. There was no answer. We went around to the back. The back door was locked too. There were empty tin cans around the back door. We looked in the window. There was nobody inside. The kitchen was dirty and sloppy, but all the doors and windows were tight shut.\'94 \'93That son of a bitch. Where is she gone out?\'94 Fontan said. He was desperate. \'93I know where I can get a key,\'94 he said. \'93You stay here.\'94 I watched him go down to the next house down the road, knock on the door, talk to the woman who came out, and finally come back. He had a key. We tried it on the front door and the back, but it wouldn\'92t work. \'93That son of a bitch,\'94 Fontan said. \'93She\'92s gone away somewhere.\'94 Looking through the window I could see where the wine was stored. Close to the window you could smell the inside of the house. It smelled sweet and sickish like an Indian house. Suddenly Fontan took a loose board and commenced digging at the earth beside the back door. \'93I can get in,\'94 he said. \'93Son of a bitch, I can get in.\'94 There was a man in the back yard of the next house doing something to one of the front wheels of an old Ford. \'93You better not,\'94 I said. \'93That man will see you. He\'92s watching.\'94 Fontan straightened up. \'93We\'92ll try the key once more,\'94 he said. We tried the key and it did not work. It turned half-way in either direction. \'93We can\'92t get in,\'94 I said. \'93We better go back.\'94 \'93I\'92ll dig up the back,\'94 Fontan offered. \'93No, I wouldn\'92t let you take the chance.\'94 \'93I\'92ll do it.\'94 \'93No,\'94 I said. \'93That man would see. Then they would seize it.\'94 We went out to the car and drove back to Fontan\'92s, stopping on the way to leave the key. Fontan did not say anything but swear in English. He was incoherent and crushed. We went in the house. \'93That son of a bitch!\'94 he said. \'93We couldn\'92t get the wine. My own wine that I made.\'94 All the happiness went from Madame Fontan\'92s face. Fontan sat down in a corner with his head in his hands. \'93We must go,\'94 I said. \'93It doesn\'92t make any difference about the wine. You drink to us when we\'92re gone.\'94 \'93Where did that crazy go?\'94 Madame Fontan asked. \'93I don\'92t know,\'94 Fontan said. \'93I don\'92t know where she go. Now you go away without any wine.\'94 \'93That\'92s all right,\'94 I said. \'93That\'92s no good,\'94 Madame Fontan said. She shook her head. \'93We have to go,\'94 I said. \'93Good-by and good luck. Thank you for the fine times.\'94 Fontan shook his head. He was disgraced. Madame Fontan looked sad. \'93Don\'92t feel bad about the wine,\'94 I said. \'93He wanted you to drink his wine,\'94 Madame Fontan said. \'93You can come back next year?\'94 \'93No. Maybe the year after.\'94 \'93You see?\'94 Fontan said to her. \'93Good-by,\'94 I said. \'93Don\'92t think about the wine. Drink some for us when we\'92re gone.\'94 Fontan shook his head. He did not smile. He knew when he was ruined. \'93That son of a bitch,\'94 Fontan said to himself. \'93Last night he had three bottles,\'94 Madame Fontan said to comfort him. He shook his head. \'93Good-by,\'94 he said. Madame Fontan had tears in her eyes. \'93Good-by,\'94 she said. She felt badly for Fontan. \'93Good-by,\'94 we said. We all felt very badly. They stood in the doorway and we got in, and I started the motor. We waved. They stood together sadly on the porch. Fontan looked very old, and Madame Fontan looked sad. She waved to us and Fontan went in the house. We turned up the road. \'93They felt so badly. Fontan felt terribly.\'94 \'93We ought to have gone last night.\'94 \'93Yes, we ought to have.\'94 We were through the town and out on the smooth road beyond, with the stubble of grain-fields on each side and the mountains off to the right. It looked like Spain, but it was Wyoming. \'93I hope they have a lot of good luck.\'94 \'93They won\'92t,\'94 I said, \'93and Schmidt won\'92t be President either.\'94 The cement road stopped. The road was gravelled now and we left the plain and started up between two foot-hills; the road in a curve and commencing to climb. The soil of the hills was red, the sage grew in gray clumps, and as the road rose we could see across the hills and away across the plain of the valley to the mountains. They were farther away now and they looked more like Spain than ever. The road curved and climbed again, and ahead there were some grouse dusting in the road. They flew as we came toward them, their wings beating fast, then sailing in long slants, and lit on the hillside below. \'93They are so big and lovely. They\'92re bigger than European patridges.\'94 \'93It\'92s a fine country for la chasse, Fontan says.\'94 \'93And when the chasse is gone?\'94 \'93They\'92ll be dead then.\'94 \'93The boy won\'92t.\'94 \'93There\'92s nothing to prove he won\'92t be,\'94 I said. \'93We ought to have gone last night.\'94 \'93Oh, yes,\'94 I said. \'93We ought to have gone.\'94 The Gambler, The Nun, and the Radio THEY BROUGHT THEM IN AROUND MID -night and then, all night long, every one along the corridor heard the Russian. \'93Where is he shot?\'94 Mr. Frazer asked the night nurse. \'93In the thigh, I think.\'94 \'93What about the other one?\'94 \'93Oh, he\'92s going to die, I\'92m afraid.\'94 \'93Where is he shot?\'94 \'93Twice in the abdomen. They only found one of the bullets.\'94 They were both beet workers, a Mexican and a Russian, and they were sitting drinking coffee in an all-night restaurant when some one came in the door and started shooting at the Mexican. The Russian crawled under a table and was hit, finally, by a stray shot fired at the Mexican as he lay on the floor with two bullets in his abdomen. That was what the paper said. The Mexican told the police he had no idea who shot him. He believed it to be an accident. \'93An accident that he fired eight shots at you and hit you twice, there?\'94 \'93S\'ed, se\'f1or,\'94 said the Mexican, who was named Cayetano Ruiz. \'93An accident that he hit me at all, the cabr\'f3n,\'94 he said to the interpreter. \'93What does he say?\'94 asked the detective sergeant, looking across the bed at the interpreter. \'93He says it was an accident.\'94 \'93Tell him to tell the truth, that he is going to die,\'94 the detective said. \'93Na,\'94 said Cayetano. \'93But tell him that I feel very sick and would prefer not to talk so much.\'94 \'93He says that he is telling the truth,\'94 the interpreter said. Then, speaking confidently, to the detective, \'93He don\'92t know who shot him. They shot him in the back.\'94 \'93Yes,\'94 said the detective. \'93I understand that, but why did the bullets all go in the front?\'94 \'93Maybe he is spinning around,\'94 said the interpreter. \'93Listen,\'94 said the detective, shaking his finger almost at Cayetano\'92s nose, which projected, waxen yellow, from his dead-man\'92s face in which his eyes were alive as a hawk\'92s. \'93I don\'92t give a damn who shot you, but I\'92ve got to clear this thing up. Don\'92t you want the man who shot you to be punished? Tell him that,\'94 he said to the interpreter. \'93He says to tell who shot you.\'94 \'93Mandarlo al carajo,\'94 said Cayetano, who was very tired. \'93He says he never saw the fellow at all,\'94 the interpreter said. \'93I tell you straight they shot him in the back.\'94 \'93Ask him who shot the Russian.\'94 \'93Poor Russian,\'94 said Cayetano. \'93He was on the floor with his head enveloped in his arms. He started to give cries when they shoot him and he is giving cries ever since. Poor Russian.\'94 \'93He says some fellow that he doesn\'92t know. Maybe the same fellow that shot him.\'94 \'93Listen,\'94 the detective said. \'93This isn\'92t Chicago. You\'92re not a gangster. You don\'92t have to act like a moving picture. It\'92s all right to tell who shot you. Anybody would tell who shot them. That\'92s all right to do. Suppose you don\'92t tell who he is and he shoots somebody else. Suppose he shoots a woman or a child. You can\'92t let him get away with that. You tell him,\'94 he said to Mr. Frazer. \'93I don\'92t trust that damn interpreter.\'94 \'93I am very reliable,\'94 the interpreter said. Cayetano looked at Mr. Frazer. \'93Listen, amigo,\'94 said Mr. Frazer. \'93The policeman says that we are not in Chicago but in Hailey, Montana. You are not a bandit and this has nothing to do with the cinema.\'94 \'93I believe him,\'94 said Cayetano softly. \'93Ya lo creo.\'94 \'93One can, with honor, denounce one\'92s assailant. Every one does it here, he says. He says what happens if after shooting you, this man shoots a woman or a child?\'94 \'93I am not married,\'94 Cayetano said. \'93He says any woman, any child.\'94 \'93The man is not crazy,\'94 Cayetano said. \'93He says you should denounce him,\'94 Mr. Frazer finished. \'93Thank you,\'94 Cayetano said. \'93You are of the great translators. I speak English, but badly. I understand it all right. How did you break your leg?\'94 \'93A fall off a horse.\'94 \'93What bad luck. I am very sorry. Does it hurt much?\'94 \'93Not now. At first, yes.\'94 \'93Listen, amigo,\'94 Cayetano began, \'93I am very weak. You will pardon me. Also I have much pain; enough pain. It is very possible that I die. Please get this policeman out of here because I am very tired.\'94 He made as though to roll to one side; then held himself still. \'93I told him everything exactly as you said and he said to tell you, truly, that he doesn\'92t know who shot him and that he is very weak and wishes you would question him later on,\'94 Mr. Frazer said. \'93He\'92ll probably be dead later on.\'94 \'93That\'92s quite possible.\'94 \'93That\'92s why I want to question him now.\'94 \'93Somebody shot him in the back, I tell you,\'94 the interpreter said. \'93Oh, for Chrisake,\'94 the detective sergeant said, and put his notebook in his pocket. Outside in the corridor the detective sergeant stood with the interpreter beside Mr. Frazer\'92s wheeled chair. \'93I suppose you think somebody shot him in the back too?\'94 \'93Yes,\'94 Frazer said. \'93Somebody shot him in the back. What\'92s it to you?\'94 \'93Don\'92t get sore,\'94 the sergeant said. \'93I wish I could talk spick.\'94 \'93Why don\'92t you learn?\'94 \'93You don\'92t have to get sore. I don\'92t get any fun out of asking that spick questions. If I could talk spick it would be different.\'94 \'93You don\'92t need to talk Spanish,\'94 the interpreter said. \'93I am a very reliable interpreter.\'94 \'93Oh, for Chrisake,\'94 the sergeant said. \'93Well, so long. I\'92ll come up and see you.\'94 \'93Thanks. I\'92m always in.\'94 \'93I guess you are all right. That was bad luck all right. Plenty bad luck.\'94 \'93It\'92s coming along good now since he spliced the bone.\'94 \'93Yes, but it\'92s a long time. A long, long time.\'94 \'93Don\'92t let anybody shoot you in the back.\'94 \'93That\'92s right,\'94 he said. \'93That\'92s right. Well, I\'92m glad you\'92re not sore.\'94 \'93So long,\'94 said Mr. Frazer. Mr. Frazer did not see Cayetano again for a long time, but each morning Sister Cecilia brought news of him. He was so uncomplaining she said and he was very bad now. He had peritonitis and they thought he could not live. Poor Cayetano, she said. He had such beautiful hands and such a fine face and he never complains. The odor, now, was really terrific. He would point toward his nose with one finger and smile and shake his head, she said. He felt badly about the odor. It embarrassed him, Sister Cecilia said. Oh, he was such a fine patient. He always smiled. He wouldn\'92t go to confession to Father but he promised to say his prayers, and not a Mexican had been to see him since he had been brought in. The Russian was going out at the end of the week. I could never feel anything about the Russian, Sister Cecilia said. Poor fellow, he suffered too. It was a greased bullet and dirty and the wound infected, but he made so much noise and then I always like the bad ones. That Cayetano, he\'92s a bad one. Oh, he must really be a bad one, a thoroughly bad one, he\'92s so fine and delicately made and he\'92s never done any work with his hands. He\'92s not a beet worker. I know he\'92s not a beet worker. His hands are as smooth and not a callous on them. I know he\'92s a bad one of some sort. I\'92m going down and pray for him now. Poor Cayetano, he\'92s having a dreadful time and he doesn\'92t make a sound. What did they have to shoot him for? Oh, that poor Cayetano! I\'92m going right down and pray for him. She went right down and prayed for him. In that hospital a radio did not work very well until it was dusk. They said it was because there was so much ore in the ground or something about the mountains, but anyway it did not work well at all until it began to get dark outside; but all night it worked beautifully and when one station stopped you could go farther west and pick up another. The last one that you could get was Seattle, Washington, and due to the difference in time, when they signed off at four o\'92clock in the morning it was five o\'92clock in the morning in the hospital; and at six o\'92clock you could get the morning revellers in Minneapolis. That was on account of the difference in time, too, and Mr. Frazer used to like to think of the morning revellers arriving at the studio and picture how they would look getting off a street-car before daylight in the morning carrying their instruments. Maybe that was wrong and they kept their instruments at the place they revelled, but he always pictured them with their instruments. He had never been in Minneapolis and believed he probably would never go there, but he knew what it looked like that early in the morning. Out of the window of the hospital you could see a field with tumbleweed coming out of the snow, and a bare clay butte. One morning the doctor wanted to show Mr. Frazer two pheasants that were out there in the snow, and pulling the bed toward the window, the reading light fell off the iron bedstead and hit Mr. Frazer on the head. This does not sound so funny now but it was very funny then. Every one was looking out the window, and the doctor, who was a most excellent doctor, was pointing at the pheasants and pulling the bed toward the window, and then, just as in a comic section, Mr. Frazer was knocked out by the leaded base of the lamp hitting the top of his head. It seemed the antithesis of healing or whatever people were in the hospital for, and every one thought it was very funny, as a joke on Mr. Frazer and on the doctor. Everything is much simpler in a hospital, including the jokes. From the other window, if the bed was turned, you could see the town, with a little smoke above it, and the Dawson mountains looking like real mountains with the winter snow on them. Those were the two views since the wheeled chair had proved to be premature. It is really best to be in bed if you are in a hospital; since two views, with time to observe them, from a room the temperature of which you control, are much better than any number of views seen for a few minutes from hot, empty rooms that are waiting for some one else, or just abandoned, which you are wheeled in and out of. If you stay long enough in a room the view, whatever it is, acquires a great value and becomes very important and you would not change it, not even by a different angle. Just as, with the radio, there are certain things that you become fond of, and you welcome them and resent the new things. The best tunes they had that winter were \'93Sing Something Simple,\'94 \'93Singsong Girl,\'94 and \'93Little White Lies.\'94 No other tunes were as satisfactory, Mr. Frazer felt. \'93Betty Co-ed\'94 was a good tune too, but the parody of the words which came unavoidably into Mr. Frazer\'92s mind, grew so steadily and increasingly obscene that there being no one to appreciate it, he finally abandoned it and let the song go back to football. About nine o\'92clock in the morning they would start using the X-ray machine, and then the radio, which, by then, was only getting Hailey, became useless. Many people in Hailey who owned radios protested about the hospital\'92s X-ray machine which ruined their morning reception, but there was never any action taken, although many felt it was a shame the hospital could not use their machine at a time when people were not using their radios. About the time when it became necessary to turn off the radio Sister Cecilia came in. \'93How\'92s Cayetano, Sister Cecilia?\'94 Mr. Frazer asked. \'93Oh, he\'92s very bad.\'94 \'93Is he out of his head?\'94 \'93No, but I\'92m afraid he\'92s going to die.\'94 \'93How are you?\'94 \'93I\'92m very worried about him, and do you know that absolutely no one has come to see him? He could die just like a dog for all those Mexicans care. They\'92re really dreadful.\'94 \'93Do you want to come up and hear the game this afternoon?\'94 \'93Oh, no,\'94 she said. \'93I\'92d be too excited. I\'92ll be in the chapel praying.\'94 \'93We ought to be able to hear it pretty well,\'94 Mr. Frazer said. \'93They\'92re playing out on the coast and the difference in time will bring it late enough so we can get it all right.\'94 \'93Oh, no. I couldn\'92t do it. The world series nearly finished me. When the Athletics were at bat I was praying right out loud: \'91Oh, Lord, direct their batting eyes! Oh, Lord, may he hit one! Oh, Lord, may he hit safely!\'92 Then when they filled the bases in the third game, you remember, it was too much for me. \'91Oh, Lord, may he hit it out of the lot! Oh, Lord, may he drive it clean over the fence!\'92 Then you know when the Cardinals would come to bat it was simply dreadful. \'91Oh, Lord, may they not see it! Oh, Lord, don\'92t let them even catch a glimpse of it! Oh, Lord, may they fan!\'92And this game is even worse. It\'92s Notre Dame. Our Lady. No, I\'92ll be in the chapel. For Our Lady. They\'92re playing for Our Lady. I wish you\'92d write something sometime for Our Lady. You could do it. You know you could do it, Mr. Frazer.\'94 \'93I don\'92t know anything about her that I could write. It\'92s mostly been written already,\'94 Mr. Frazer said. \'93You wouldn\'92t like the way I write. She wouldn\'92t care for it either.\'94 \'93You\'92ll write about her sometime,\'94 Sister said. \'93I know you will. You must write about Our Lady.\'94 \'93You\'92d better come up and hear the game.\'94 \'93It would be too much for me. No, I\'92ll be in the chapel doing what I can.\'94 That afternoon they had been playing about five minutes when a probationer came into the room and said, \'93Sister Cecilia wants to know how the game is going?\'94 \'93Tell her they have a touchdown already.\'94 In a little while the probationer came into the room again. \'93Tell her they\'92re playing them off their feet,\'94 Mr. Frazer said. A little later he rang the bell for the nurse who was on floor duty. \'93Would you mind going down to the chapel or sending word down to Sister Cecilia that Notre Dame has them fourteen to nothing at the end of the first quarter and that it\'92s all right. She can stop praying.\'94 In a few minutes Sister Cecilia came into the room. She was very excited. \'93What does fourteen to nothing mean? I don\'92t know anything about this game. That\'92s a nice safe lead in baseball. But I don\'92t know anything about football. It may not mean a thing. I\'92m going right back down to the chapel and pray until it\'92s finished.\'94 \'93They have them beaten,\'94 Frazer said. \'93I promise you. Stay and listen with me.\'94 \'93No. No. No. No. No. No. No,\'94 she said. \'93I\'92m going right down to the chapel to pray.\'94 Mr. Frazer sent down word whenever Notre Dame scored, and finally, when it had been dark a long time, the final result. \'93How\'92s Sister Cecilia?\'94 \'93They\'92re all at chapel,\'94 she said. The next morning Sister Cecilia came in. She was very pleased and confident. \'93I knew they couldn\'92t beat Our Lady,\'94 she said. \'93They couldn\'92t. Cayetano\'92s better too. He\'92s much better. He\'92s going to have visitors. He can\'92t see them yet, but they are going to come and that will make him feel better and know he\'92s not forgotten by his own people. I went down and saw that O\'92Brien boy at Police Headquarters and told him that he\'92s got to send some Mexicans up to see poor Cayetano. He\'92s going to send some this afternoon. Then that poor man will feel better. It\'92s wicked the way no one has come to see him.\'94 That afternoon about five o\'92clock three Mexicans came into the room. \'93Can one?\'94 asked the biggest one, who had very thick lips and was quite fat. \'93Why not?\'94 Mr. Frazer answered. \'93Sit down, gentlemen. Will you take something?\'94 \'93Many thanks,\'94 said the big one. \'93Thanks,\'94 said the darkest and smallest one. \'93Thanks, no,\'94 said the thin one. \'93It mounts to my head.\'94 He tapped his head. The nurse brought some glasses. \'93Please give them the bottle,\'94 Frazer said. \'93It is from Red Lodge,\'94 he explained. \'93That of Red Lodge is the best,\'94 said the big one. \'93Much better than that of Big Timber.\'94 \'93Clearly,\'94 said the smallest one, \'93and costs more too.\'94 \'93In Red Lodge it is of all prices,\'94 said the big one. \'93How many tubes has the radio?\'94 asked the one who did not drink. \'93Seven.\'94 \'93Very beautiful,\'94 he said. \'93What does it cost?\'94 \'93I don\'92t know,\'94 Mr. Frazer said. \'93It is rented.\'94 \'93You gentlemen are friends of Cayetano?\'94 \'93No,\'94 said the big one. \'93We are friends of he who wounded him.\'94 \'93We were sent here by the police,\'94 the smallest one said. \'93We have a little place,\'94 the big one said. \'93He and I,\'94 indicating the one who did not drink. \'93He has a little place too,\'94 indicating the small, dark one. \'93The police tell us we have to come\'97so we come.\'94 \'93I am very happy you have come.\'94 \'93Equally,\'94 said the big one. \'93Will you have another little cup?\'94 \'93Why not?\'94 said the big one. \'93With your permission,\'94 said the smallest one. \'93Not me,\'94 said the thin one. \'93It mounts to my head.\'94 \'93It is very good,\'94 said the smallest one. \'93Why not try some,\'94 Mr. Frazer asked the thin one. \'93Let a little mount to your head.\'94 \'93Afterwards comes the headache,\'94 said the thin one. \'93Could you not send friends of Cayetano to see him?\'94 Frazer asked. \'93He has no friends.\'94 \'93Every man has friends.\'94 \'93This one, no.\'94 \'93What does he do?\'94 \'93He is a card-player.\'94 \'93Is he good?\'94 \'93I believe it.\'94 \'93From me,\'94 said the smallest one, \'93he won one hundred and eighty dollars. Now there is no longer one hundred and eighty dollars in the world.\'94 \'93From me,\'94 said the thin one, \'93he won two hundred and eleven dollars. Fix yourself on that figure.\'94 \'93I never played with him,\'94 said the fat one. \'93He must be very rich,\'94 Mr. Frazer suggested. \'93He is poorer than we,\'94 said the little Mexican. \'93He has no more than the shirt on his back.\'94 \'93And that shirt is of little value now,\'94 Mr. Frazer said. \'93Perforated as it is.\'94 \'93Clearly.\'94 \'93The one who wounded him was a card-player?\'94 \'93No, a beet worker. He has had to leave town.\'94 \'93Fix yourself on this,\'94 said the smallest one. \'93He was the best guitar player ever in this town. The finest.\'94 \'93What a shame.\'94 \'93I believe it,\'94 said the biggest one. \'93How he could touch the guitar.\'94 \'93There are no good guitar players left?\'94 \'93Not the shadow of a guitar player.\'94 \'93There is an accordion player who is worth something,\'94 the thin man said. \'93There are a few who touch various instruments,\'94 the big one said. \'93You like music?\'94 \'93How would I not?\'94 \'93We will come one night with music? You think the sister would allow it? She seems very amiable.\'94 \'93I am sure she would permit it when Cayetano is able to hear it.\'94 \'93Is she a little crazy?\'94 asked the thin one. \'93Who?\'94 \'93That sister.\'94 \'93No,\'94 Mr. Frazer said. \'93She is a fine woman of great intelligence and sympathy.\'94 \'93I distrust all priests, monks, and sisters,\'94 said the thin one. \'93He had bad experiences when a boy,\'94 the smallest one said. \'93I was acolyte,\'94 the thin one said proudly. \'93Now I believe in nothing. Neither do I go to mass.\'94 \'93Why? Does it mount to your head?\'94 \'93No,\'94 said the thin one. \'93It is alcohol that mounts to my head. Religion is the opium of the poor.\'94 \'93I thought marijuana was the opium of the poor,\'94 Frazer said. \'93Did you ever smoke opium?\'94 the big one asked. \'93No.\'94 \'93Nor I,\'94 he said. \'93It seems it is very bad. One commences and cannot stop. It is a vice.\'94 \'93Like religion,\'94 said the thin one. \'93This one,\'94 said the smallest Mexican, \'93is very strong against religion.\'94 \'93It is necessary to be very strong against something,\'94 Mr. Frazer said politely. \'93I respect those who have faith even though they are ignorant,\'94 the thin one said. \'93Good,\'94 said Mr. Frazer. \'93What can we bring you?\'94 asked the big Mexican. \'93Do you lack for anything?\'94 \'93I would be glad to buy some beer if there is good beer.\'94 \'93We will bring beer.\'94 \'93Another copita before you go?\'94 \'93It is very good.\'94 \'93We are robbing you.\'94 \'93I can\'92t take it. It goes to my head. Then I have a bad headache and sick at the stomach.\'94 \'93Good-by, gentlemen.\'94 \'93Good-by and thanks.\'94 They went out and there was supper and then the radio, turned to be as quiet as possible and still be heard, and the stations finally signing off in this order: Denver, Salt Lake City, Los Angeles, and Seattle. Mr. Frazer received no picture of Denver from the radio. He could see Denver from the Denver Post, and correct the picture from The Rocky Mountain News. Nor did he ever have any feel of Salt Lake City or Los Angeles from what he heard from those places. All he felt about Salt Lake City was that it was dean, but dull, and there were too many ballrooms mentioned in too many big hotels for him to see Los Angeles. He could not feel it for the ballrooms. But Seattle he came to know very well, the taxicab company with the big white cabs (each cab equipped with radio itself) he rode in every night out to the roadhouse on the Canadian side where he followed the course of parties by the musical selections they phoned for. He lived in Seattle from two o\'92clock on, each night, hearing the pieces that all the different people asked for, and it was as real as Minneapolis, where the revellers left their beds each morning to make that trip down to the studio. Mr. Frazer grew very fond of Seattle, Washington. The Mexicans came and brought beer but it was not good beer. Mr. Frazer saw them but he did not feel like talking, and when they went he knew they would not come again. His nerves had become tricky and he disliked seeing people while he was in this condition. His nerves went bad at the end of five weeks, and while he was pleased they lasted that long yet he resented being forced to make the same experiment when he already knew the answer. Mr. Frazer had been through this all before. The only thing which was new to him was the radio. He played it all night long, turned so low he could barely hear it, and he was learning to listen to it without thinking. Sister Cecilia came into the room about ten o\'92clock in the morning on that day and brought the mail. She was very handsome, and Mr. Frazer liked to see her and to hear her talk, but the mail, supposedly coming from a different world, was more important. However, there was nothing in the mail of any interest. \'93You look so much better,\'94 she said. \'93You\'92ll be leaving us soon.\'94 \'93Yes,\'94 Mr. Frazer said. \'93You look very happy this morning.\'94 \'93Oh, I am. This morning I feel as though I might be a saint.\'94 Mr. Frazer was a little taken aback at this. \'93Yes,\'94 Sister Cecilia went on. \'93That\'92s what I want to be. A saint. Ever since I was a little girl I\'92ve wanted to be a saint. When I was a girl I thought if I renounced the world and went into the convent I would be a saint. That was what I wanted to be and that was what I thought I had to do to be one. I expected I would be a saint. I was absolutely sure I would be one. For just a moment I thought I was one. I was so happy and it seemed so simple and easy. When I awoke in the morning I expected I would be a saint, but I wasn\'92t. I\'92ve never become one. I want so to be one. All I want is to be a saint. That is all I\'92ve ever wanted. And this morning I feel as though I might be one. Oh, I hope I will get to be one.\'94 \'93You\'92ll be one. Everybody gets what they want. That\'92s what they always tell me.\'94 \'93I don\'92t know now. When I was a girl it seemed so simple. I knew I would be a saint. Only I believed it took time when I found it did not happen suddenly. Now it seems almost impossible.\'94 \'93I\'92d say you had a good chance.\'94 \'93Do you really think so? No, I don\'92t want just to be encouraged. Don\'92t just encourage me. I want to be a saint. I want so to be a saint.\'94 \'93Of course you\'92ll be a saint,\'94 Mr. Frazer said. \'93No, probably I won\'92t be. But, oh, if I could only be a saint! I\'92d be perfectly happy.\'94 \'93You\'92re three to one to be a saint.\'94 \'93No, don\'92t encourage me. But, oh, if I could only be a saint! If I could only be a saint!\'94 \'93How\'92s your friend Cayetano?\'94 \'93He\'92s going to get well but he\'92s paralyzed. One of the bullets hit the big nerve that goes down through his thigh and that leg is paralyzed. They only found it out when he got well enough so that he could move.\'94 \'93Maybe the nerve will regenerate.\'94 \'93I\'92m praying that it will,\'94 Sister Cecilia said. \'93You ought to see him.\'94 \'93I don\'92t feel like seeing anybody.\'94 \'93You know you\'92d like to see him. They could wheel him in here.\'94 \'93All right.\'94 They wheeled him in, thin, his skin transparent, his hair black and needing to be cut, his eyes very laughing, his teeth bad when he smiled. \'93Hola, amigo! Qu\'e9 tal?\'94 \'93As you see,\'94 said Mr. Frazer. \'93And thou?\'94 \'93Alive and with the leg paralyzed.\'94 \'93Bad,\'94 Mr. Frazer said. \'93But the nerve can regenerate and be as good as new.\'94 \'93So they tell me.\'94 \'93What about the pain?\'94 \'93Not now. For a while I was crazy with it in the belly. I thought the pain alone would kill me.\'94 Sister Cecilia was observing them happily. \'93She tells me you never made a sound,\'94 Mr. Frazer said. \'93So many people in the ward,\'94 the Mexican said deprecatingly. \'93What class of pain do you have?\'94 \'93Big enough. Clearly not as bad as yours. When the nurse goes out I cry an hour, two hours. It rests me. My nerves are bad now.\'94 \'93You have the radio. If I had a private room and a radio I would be crying and yelling all night long.\'94 \'93I doubt it.\'94 \'93Hombre, s\'ed. It\'92s very healthy. But you cannot do it with so many people.\'94 \'93At least,\'94 Mr. Frazer said, \'93the hands are still good. They tell me you make your living with the hands.\'94 \'93And the head,\'94 he said, tapping his forehead. \'93But the head isn\'92t worth as much.\'94 \'93Three of your countrymen were here.\'94 \'93Sent by the police to see me.\'94 \'93They brought some beer.\'94 \'93It probably was bad.\'94 \'93It was bad.\'94 \'93Tonight, sent by the police, they come to serenade me.\'94 He laughed, then tapped his stomach. \'93I cannot laugh yet. As musicians they are fatal.\'94 \'93And the one who shot you?\'94 \'93Another fool. I won thirty-eight dollars from him at cards. That is not to kill about.\'94 \'93The three told me you win much money.\'94 \'93And am poorer than the birds.\'94 \'93How?\'94 \'93I am a poor idealist. I am the victim of illusions.\'94 He laughed, then grinned and tapped his stomach. \'93I am a professional gambler but I like to gamble. To really gamble. Little gambling is all crooked. For real gambling you need luck. I have no luck.\'94 \'93Never?\'94 \'93Never. I am completely without luck. Look, this cabr\'f3n who shoots me just now. Can he shoot? No. The first shot he fires into nothing. The second is intercepted by a poor Russian. That would seem to be luck. What happens? He shoots me twice in the belly. He is a lucky man. I have no luck. He could not hit a horse if he were holding the stirrup. All luck.\'94 \'93I thought he shot you first and the Russian after.\'94 \'93No, the Russian first, me after. The paper was mistaken.\'94 \'93Why didn\'92t you shoot him?\'94 \'93I never carry a gun. With my luck, if I carried a gun I would be hanged ten times a year. I am a cheap card player, only that.\'94 He stopped, then continued. \'93When I make a sum of money I gamble and when I gamble I lose. I have passed at dice for three thousand dollars and crapped out for the six. With good dice. More than once.\'94 \'93Why continue?\'94 \'93If I live long enough the luck will change. I have bad luck now for fifteen years. If I ever get any good luck I will be rich.\'94 He grinned. \'93I am a good gambler, really I would enjoy being rich.\'94 \'93Do you have bad luck with all games?\'94 \'93With everything and with women.\'94 He smiled again, showing his bad teeth. \'93Truly?\'94 \'93Truly.\'94 \'93And what is there to do?\'94 \'93Continue, slowly, and wait for luck to change.\'94 \'93But with women?\'94 \'93No gambler has luck with women. He is too concentrated. He works nights. When he should be with the woman. No man who works nights can hold a woman if the woman is worth anything.\'94 \'93You are a philosopher.\'94 \'93No, hombre. A gambler of the small towns. One small town, then another, another, then a big town, then start over again.\'94 \'93Then shot in the belly.\'94 \'93The first time,\'94 he said. \'93That has only happened once.\'94 \'93I tire you talking?\'94 Mr. Frazer suggested. \'93No,\'94 he said. \'93I must tire you.\'94 \'93And the leg?\'94 \'93I have no great use for the leg. I am all right with the leg or not. I will be able to circulate.\'94 \'93I wish you luck, truly, and with all my heart,\'94 Mr. Frazer said. \'93Equally,\'94 he said. \'93And that the pain stops.\'94 \'93It will not last, certainly. It is passing. It is of no importance.\'94 \'93That it passes quickly.\'94 \'93Equally.\'94 That night the Mexicans played the accordion and other instruments in the ward and it was cheerful and the noise of the inhalations and exhalations of the accordion, and of the bells, the traps, and the drum came down the corridor. In that ward there was a rodeo rider who had come out of the chutes on Midnight on a hot dusty afternoon with the big crowd watching, and now, with a broken back, was going to learn to work in leather and to cane chairs when he got well enough to leave the hospital. There was a carpenter who had fallen with a scaffolding and broken both ankles and both wrists. He had lit like a cat but without a cat\'92s resiliency. They could fix him up so that he could work again but it would take a long time. There was a boy from a farm, about sixteen years old, with a broken leg that had been badly set and was to be rebroken. There was Cayetano Ruiz, a small-town gambler with a paralyzed leg. Down the corridor Mr. Frazer could hear them all laughing and merry with the music made by the Mexicans who had been sent by the police. The Mexicans were having a good time. They came in, very excited, to see Mr. Frazer and wanted to know if there was anything he wanted them to play, and they came twice more to play at night of their own accord. The last time they played Mr. Frazer lay in his room with the door open and listened to the noisy, bad music and could not keep from thinking. When they wanted to know what he wished played, he asked for the Cucaracha, which has the sinister lightness and deftness of so many of the tunes men have gone to die to. They played noisily and with emotion. The tune was better than most of such tunes, to Mr. Frazer\'92s mind, but the effect was all the same. In spite of this introduction of emotion, Mr. Frazer went on thinking. Usually he avoided thinking all he could, except when he was writing, but now he was thinking about those who were playing and what the little one had said. Religion is the opium of the people. He believed that, that dyspeptic little joint-keeper. Yes, and music is the opium of the people. Old mount-to-the-head hadn\'92t thought of that. And now economics is the opium of the people; along with patriotism the opium of the people in Italy and Germany. What about sexual intercourse; was that an opium of the people? Of some of the people. Of some of the best of the people. But drink was a sovereign opium of the people, oh, an excellent opium. Although some prefer the radio, another opium of the people, a cheap one he had just been using. Along with these went gambling, an opium of the people if there ever was one, one of the oldest. Ambition was another, an opium of the people, along with a belief in any new form of government. What you wanted was the minimum of government, always less government. Liberty, what we believed in, now the name of a MacFadden publication. We believed in that although they had not found a new name for it yet. But what was the real one? What was the real, the actual, opium of the people? He knew it very well. It was gone just a little way around the corner in that well-lighted part of his mind that was there after two or more drinks in the evening; that he knew was there (it was not really there of course). What was it? He knew very well. What was it? Of course; bread was the opium of the people. Would he remember that and would it make sense in the daylight? Bread is the opium of the people. \'93Listen,\'94 Mr. Frazer said to the nurse when she came. \'93Get that little thin Mexican in here, will you, please?\'94 \'93How do you like it?\'94 the Mexican said at the door. \'93Very much.\'94 \'93It is a historic tune,\'94 the Mexican said. \'93It is the tune of the real revolution.\'94 \'93Listen,\'94 said Mr. Frazer. \'93Why should the people be operated on without an an\'e6sthetic?\'94 \'93I do not understand.\'94 \'93Why are not all the opiums of the people good? What do you want to do with the people?\'94 \'93They should be rescued from ignorance.\'94 \'93Don\'92t talk nonsense. Education is an opium of the people. You ought to know that. You\'92ve had a little.\'94 \'93You do not believe in education?\'94 \'93No,\'94 said Mr. Frazer. \'93In knowledge, yes.\'94 \'93I do not follow you.\'94 \'93Many times I do not follow myself with pleasure.\'94 \'93You want to hear the Cucaracha another time?\'94 asked the Mexican worriedly. \'93Yes,\'94 said Mr. Frazer. \'93Play the Cucaracha another time. It\'92s better than the radio.\'94 Revolution, Mr. Frazer thought, is no opium. Revolution is a catharsis; an ecstasy which can only be prolonged by tyranny. The opiums are for before and for after. He was thinking well, a little too well. They would go now in a little while, he thought, and they would take the Cucaracha with them. Then he would have a little spot of the giant killer and play the radio, you could play the radio so that you could hardly hear it. Fathers and Sons THERE HAD BEEN A SIGN TO DETOUR IN the center of the main street of this town, but cars had obviously gone through, so, believing it was some repair which had been completed, Nicholas Adams drove on through the town along the empty, brick-paved street, stopped by traffic lights that flashed on and off on this traffic-less Sunday, and would be gone next year when the payments on the system were not met; on under the heavy trees of the small town that are a part of your heart if it is your town and you have walked under them, but that are only too heavy, that shut out the sun and that dampen the houses for a stranger; out past the last house and onto the highway that rose and fell straight away ahead with banks of red dirt sliced cleanly away and the second-growth timber on both sides. It was not his country but it was the middle of fall and all of this country was good to drive through and to see. The cotton was picked and in the clearings there were patches of corn, some cut with streaks of red sorghum, and, driving easily, his son asleep on the seat by his side, the day\'92s run made, knowing the town he would reach for the night, Nick noticed which corn fields had soy beans or peas in them, how the thickets and the cut-over land lay, where the cabins and houses were in relation to the fields and the thickets; hunting the country in his mind as he went by; sizing up each clearing as to feed and cover and figuring where you would find a covey and which way they would fly. In shooting quail you must not get between them and their habitual cover, once the dogs have found them, or when they flush they will come pouring at you, some rising steep, some skimming by your ears, whirring into a size you have never seen them in the air as they pass, the only way being to turn and take them over your shoulder as they go, before they set their wings and angle down into the thicket. Hunting this country for quail as his father had taught him, Nicholas Adams started thinking about his father. When he first thought about him it was always the eyes. The big frame, the quick movements, the wide shoulders, the hooked, hawk nose, the beard that covered the weak chin, you never thought about\'97it was always the eyes. They were protected in his head by the formation of the brows; set deep as though a special protection had been devised for some very valuable instrument. They saw much farther and much quicker than the human eye sees and they were the great gift his father had. His father saw as a big-horn ram or as an eagle sees, literally. He would be standing with his father on one shore of the lake, his own eyes were very good then, and his father would say, \'93They\'92ve run up the flag.\'94 Nick could not see the flag or the flag pole. \'93There,\'94 his father would say, \'93it\'92s your sister Dorothy. She\'92s got the flag up and she\'92s walking out onto the dock.\'94 Nick would look across the lake and he could see the long wooded shore-line, the higher timber behind, the point that guarded the bay, the clear hills of the farm and the white of their cottage in the trees but he could not see any flag pole, or any dock, only the white of the beach and the curve of the shore. \'93Can you see the sheep on the hillside toward the point?\'94 \'93Yes.\'94 They were a whitish patch on the gray-green of the hill. \'93I can count them,\'94 his father said. Like all men with a faculty that surpasses human requirements, his father was very nervous. Then, too, he was sentimental, and, like most sentimental people, he was both cruel and abused. Also, he had much bad luck, and it was not all of it his own. He had died in a trap that he had helped only a little to set, and they had all betrayed him in their various ways before he died. All sentimental people are betrayed so many times. Nick could not write about him yet, although he would, later, but the quail country made him remember him as he was when Nick was a boy and he was very grateful to him for two things: fishing and shooting. His father was as sound on those two things as he was unsound on sex, for instance, and Nick was glad that it had been that way; for some one has to give you your first gun or the opportunity to get it and use it, and you have to live where there is game or fish if you are to learn about them, and now, at thirty-eight, he loved to fish and to shoot exactly as much as when he first had gone with his father. It was a passion that had never slackened and he was very grateful to his father for bringing him to know it. While for the other, that his father was not sound about, all the equipment you will ever have is provided and each man learns all there is for him to know about it without advice; and it makes no difference where you live. He remembered very clearly the only two pieces of information his father had given him about that. Once when they were out shooting together Nick shot a red squirrel out of a hemlock tree. The squirrel fell, wounded, and when Nick picked him up bit the boy clean through the ball of the thumb. \'93The dirty little bugger,\'94 Nick said and smacked the squirrel\'92s head against the tree. \'93Look how he bit me.\'94 His father looked and said, \'93Suck it out clean and put some iodine on when you get home.\'94 \'93The little bugger,\'94 Nick said. \'93Do you know what a bugger is?\'94 his father asked him. \'93We call anything a bugger,\'94 Nick said. \'93A bugger is a man who has intercourse with animals.\'94 \'93Why?\'94 Nick said. \'93I don\'92t know,\'94 his father said. \'93But it is a heinous crime.\'94 Nick\'92s imagination was both stirred and horrified by this and he thought of various animals but none seemed attractive or practical and that was the sum total of direct sexual knowledge bequeathed him by his father except on one other subject. One morning he read in the paper that Enrico Caruso had been arrested for mashing. \'93What is mashing?\'94 \'93It is one of the most heinous of crimes,\'94 his father answered. Nick\'92s imagination pictured the great tenor doing something strange, bizarre, and heinous with a potato masher to a beautiful lady who looked like the pictures of Anna Held on the inside of cigar boxes. He resolved, with considerable horror, that when he was old enough he would try mashing at least once. His father had summed up the whole matter by stating that masturbation produced blindness, insanity, and death, while a man who went with prostitutes would contract hideous venereal diseases and that the thing to do was to keep your hands off of people. On the other hand his father had the finest pair of eyes he had ever seen and Nick had loved him very much and for a long time. Now, knowing how it had all been, even remembering the earliest times before things had gone badly was not good remembering. If he wrote it he could get rid of it. He had gotten rid of many things by writing them. But it was still too early for that. There were still too many people. So he decided to think of something else. There was nothing to do about his father and he had thought it all through many times. The handsome job the undertaker had done on his father\'92s face had not blurred in his mind and all the rest of it was quite clear, including the responsibilities. He had complimented the undertaker. The undertaker had been both proud and smugly pleased. But it was not the undertaker that had given him that last face. The undertaker had only made certain dashingly executed repairs of doubtful artistic merit. The face had been making itself and being made for a long time. It had modelled fast in the last three years. It was a good story but there were still too many people alive for him to write it. Nick\'92s own education in those earlier matters had been acquired in the hemlock woods behind the Indian camp. This was reached by a trail which ran from the cottage through the woods to the farm and then by a road which wound through the slashings to the camp. Now if he could still feel all of that trail with bare feet. First there was the pine-needle loam through the hemlock woods behind the cottage where the fallen logs crumbled into wood dust and long splintered pieces of wood hung like javelins in the tree that had been struck by lightning. You crossed the creek on a log and if you stepped off there was the black muck of the swamp. You climbed a fence out of the woods and the trail was hard in the sun across the field with cropped grass and sheep sorrel and mullen growing and to the left the quaky bog of the creek bottom where the killdeer plover fed. The spring house was in that creek. Below the barn there was fresh warm manure and the other older manure that was caked dry on top. Then there was another fence and the hard, hot trail from the barn to the house and the hot sandy road that ran down to the woods, crossing the creek, on a bridge this time, where the cat-tails grew that you soaked in kerosene to make jack-lights with for spearing fish at night. Then the main road went off to the left, skirting the woods and climbing the hill, while you went into the woods on the wide clay and shale road, cool under the trees, and broadened for them to skid out the hemlock bark the Indians cut. The hemlock bark was piled in long rows of stacks, roofed over with more bark, like houses, and the peeled logs lay huge and yellow where the trees had been felled. They left the logs in the woods to rot, they did not even clear away or burn the tops. It was only the bark they wanted for the tannery at Boyne City; hauling it across the lake on the ice in winter, and each year there was less forest and more open, hot, shadeless, weed-grown slashing. But there was still much forest then, virgin forest where the trees grew high before there were any branches and you walked on the brown, clean, springy-needled ground with no undergrowth and it was cool on the hottest days and they three lay against the trunk of a hemlock wider than two beds are long, with the breeze high in the tops and the cool light that came in patches, and Billy said: \'93You want Trudy again?\'94 \'93You want to?\'94 \'93Un Huh.\'94 \'93Come on.\'94 \'93No, here.\'94 \'93But Billy\'97\'94 \'93I no mind Billy. He my brother.\'94 Then afterwards they sat, the three of them, listening for a black squirrel that was in the top branches where they could not see him. They were waiting for him to bark again because when he barked he would jerk his tail and Nick would shoot where he saw any movement. His father gave him only three cartridges a day to hunt with and he had a single-barrel twenty-gauge shotgun with a very long barrel. \'93Son of a bitch never move,\'94 Billy said. \'93You shoot, Nickie. Scare him. We see him jump. Shoot him again,\'94 Trudy said. It was a long speech for her. \'93I\'92ve only got two shells,\'94 Nick said. \'93Son of a bitch,\'94 said Billy. They sat against the tree and were quiet. Nick was feeling hollow and happy. \'93Eddie says he going to come some night sleep in bed with you sister Dorothy.\'94 \'93What?\'94 \'93He said.\'94 Trudy nodded. \'93That\'92s all he want do,\'94 she said. Eddie was their older half-brother. He was seventeen. \'93If Eddie Gilby ever comes at night and even speaks to Dorothy you know what I\'92d do to him? I\'92d kill him like this.\'94 Nick cocked the gun and hardly taking aim pulled the trigger, blowing a hole as big as your hand in the head or belly of that half-breed bastard Eddie Gilby. \'93Like that. I\'92d kill him like that.\'94 \'93He better not come then,\'94 Trudy said. She put her hand in Nick\'92s pocket. \'93He better watch out plenty,\'94 said Billy. \'93He\'92s big bluff,\'94 Trudy was exploring with her hand in Nick\'92s pocket. \'93But don\'92t you kill him. You get plenty trouble.\'94 \'93I\'92d kill him like that,\'94 Nick said. Eddie Gilby lay on the ground with all his chest shot away. Nick put his foot on him proudly. \'93I\'92d scalp him,\'94 he said happily. \'93No,\'94 said Trudy. \'93That\'92s dirty.\'94 \'93I\'92d scalp him and send it to his mother.\'94 \'93His mother dead,\'94 Trudy said. \'93Don\'92t you kill him, Nickie. Don\'92t you kill him for me.\'94 \'93After I scalped him I\'92d throw him to the dogs.\'94 Billy was very depressed. \'93He better watch out,\'94 he said gloomily. \'93They\'92d tear him to pieces,\'94 Nick said, pleased with the picture. Then, having scalped that halfbreed renegade and standing, watching the dogs tear him, his face unchanging, he fell backward against the tree, held tight around the neck, Trudy holding, choking him, and crying, \'93No kill him! No kill him! No kill him! No. No. No. Nickie. Nickie. Nickie!\'94 \'93What\'92s the matter with you?\'94 \'93No kill him.\'94 \'93I got to kill him.\'94 \'93He just a big bluff.\'94 \'93All right,\'94 Nickie said. \'93I won\'92t kill him unless he comes around the house. Let go of me.\'94 \'93That\'92s good,\'94 Trudy said. \'93You want to do anything now? I feel good now.\'94 \'93If Billy goes away.\'94 Nick had killed Eddie Gilby, then pardoned him his life, and he was a man now. \'93You go, Billy. You hang around all the time. Go on.\'94 \'93Son a bitch,\'94 Billy said. \'93I get tired this. What we come? Hunt or what?\'94 \'93You can take the gun. There\'92s one shell.\'94 \'93All right. I get a big black one all right.\'94 \'93I\'92ll holler,\'94 Nick said. Then, later, it was a long time after and Billy was still away. \'93You think we make a baby?\'94 Trudy folded her brown legs together happily and rubbed against him. Something inside Nick had gone a long way away. \'93I don\'92t think so,\'94 he said. \'93Make plenty baby what the hell.\'94 They heard Billy shoot. \'93I wonder if he got one.\'94 \'93Don\'92t care,\'94 said Trudy. Billy came through the trees. He had the gun over his shoulder and he held a black squirrel by the front paws. \'93Look,\'94 he said. \'93Bigger than a cat. You all through?\'94 \'93Where\'92d you get him?\'94 \'93Over there. Saw him jump first.\'94 \'93Got to go home,\'94 Nick said. \'93No,\'94 said Trudy. \'93I got to get there for supper.\'94 \'93All right.\'94 \'93Want to hunt tomorrow?\'94 \'93All right.\'94 \'93You can have the squirrel.\'94 \'93All right.\'94 \'93Come out after supper?\'94 \'93No.\'94 \'93How you feel?\'94 \'93Good.\'94 \'93All right.\'94 \'93Give me kiss on the face,\'94 said Trudy. Now, as he rode along the highway in the car and it was getting dark, Nick was all through thinking about his father. The end of the day never made him think of him. The end of the day had always belonged to Nick alone and he never felt right unless he was alone at it. His father came back to him in the fall of the year, or in the early spring when there had been jacksnipe on the prairie, or when he saw shocks of corn, or when he saw a lake, or if he ever saw a horse and buggy, or when he saw, or heard, wild geese, or in a duck blind; remembering the time an eagle dropped through the whirling snow to strike a canvas-covered decoy, rising, his wings beating, the talons caught in the canvas. His father was with him, suddenly, in deserted orchards and in new-plowed fields, in thickets, on small hills, or when going through dead grass, whenever splitting wood or hauling water, by grist mills, cider mills and dams and always with open fires. The towns he lived in were not towns his father knew. After he was fifteen he had shared nothing with him. His father had frost in his beard in cold weather and in hot weather he sweated very much. He liked to work in the sun on the farm because he did not have to and he loved manual work, which Nick did not. Nick loved his father but hated the smell of him and once when he had to wear a suit of his father\'92s underwear that had gotten too small for his father it made him feel sick and he took it off and put it under two stones in the creek and said that he had lost it. He had told his father how it was when his father had made him put it on but his father had said it was freshly washed. It had been, too. When Nick had asked him to smell of it his father sniffed at it indignantly and said that it was clean and fresh. When Nick came home from fishing without it and said he lost it he was whipped for lying. Afterwards he had sat inside the woodshed with the door open, his shotgun loaded and cocked, looking across at his father sitting on the screen porch reading the paper, and thought, \'93I can blow him to hell. I can kill him.\'94 Finally he felt his anger go out of him and he felt a little sick about it being the gun that his father had given him. Then he had gone to the Indian camp, walking there in the dark, to get rid of the smell. There was only one person in his family that he liked the smell of; one sister. All the others he avoided all contact with. That sense blunted when he started to smoke. It was a good thing. It was good for a bird dog but it did not help a man. \'93What was it like, Papa, when you were a little boy and used to hunt with the Indians?\'94 \'93I don\'92t know,\'94 Nick was startled. He had not even noticed the boy was awake. He looked at him sitting beside him on the seat. He had felt quite alone but this boy had been with him. He wondered for how long. \'93We used to go all day to hunt black squirrels,\'94 he said. \'93My father only gave me three shells a day because he said that would teach me to hunt and it wasn\'92t good for a boy to go banging around. I went with a boy named Billy Gilby and his sister Trudy. We used to go out nearly every day all one summer.\'94 \'93Those are funny names for Indians.\'94 \'93Yes, aren\'92t they,\'94 Nick said. \'93But tell me what they were like.\'94 \'93They were Ojibways,\'94 Nick said. \'93And they were very nice.\'94 \'93But what were they like to be with?\'94 \'93It\'92s hard to say,\'94 Nick Adams said. Could you say she did first what no one has ever done better and mention plump brown legs, flat belly, hard little breasts, well holding arms, quick searching tongue, the flat eyes, the good taste of mouth, then uncomfortably, tightly, sweetly, moistly, lovely, tightly, achingly, fully, finally, unendingly, never-endingly, never-to-endingly, suddenly ended, the great bird flown like an owl in the twilight, only it was daylight in the woods and hemlock needles stuck against your belly. So that when you go in a place where Indians have lived you smell them gone and all the empty pain killer bottles and the flies that buzz do not kill the sweetgrass smell, the smoke smell and that other like a fresh cased marten skin. Nor any jokes about them nor old squaws take that away. Nor the sick sweet smell they get to have. Nor what they did finally. It wasn\'92t how they ended. They all ended the same. Long time ago good. Now no good. And about the other. When you have shot one bird flying you have shot all birds flying. They are all different and they fly in different ways but the sensation is the same and the last one is as good as the first. He could thank his father for that. \'93You might not like them,\'94 Nick said to the boy. \'93But I think you would.\'94 \'93And my grandfather lived with them too when he was a boy, didn\'92t he?\'94 \'93Yes. When I asked him what they were like he said that he had many friends among them.\'94 \'93Will I ever live with them?\'94 \'93I don\'92t know,\'94 Nick said. \'93That\'92s up to you.\'94 \'93How old will I be when I get a shotgun and can hunt by myself?\'94 \'93Twelve years old if I see you are careful.\'94 \'93\'92I wish I was twelve now.\'94 \'93You will be, soon enough.\'94 \'93What was my grandfather like? I can\'92t remember him except that he gave me an air rifle and an American flag when I came over from France that time. What was he like?\'94 \'93He\'92s hard to describe. He was a great hunter and fisherman and he had wonderful eyes.\'94 \'93\'92Was he greater than you?\'94 \'93He was a much better shot and his father was a great wing shot too.\'94 \'93I\'92ll bet he wasn\'92t better than you.\'94 \'93Oh, yes he was. He shot very quickly and beautifully. I\'92d rather see him shoot than any man I ever knew. He was always very disappointed in the way I shot.\'94 \'93Why do we never go to pray at the tomb of my grandfather?\'94 \'93We live in a different pan of the country. It\'92s a long way from here.\'94 \'93In France that wouldn\'92t make any difference. In France we\'92d go. I think I ought to go to pray at the tomb of my grandfather.\'94 \'93Sometime we\'92ll go.\'94 \'93I hope we won\'92t live somewhere so that I can never go to pray at your tomb when you are dead.\'94 \'93We\'92ll have to arrange it.\'94 \'93Don\'92t you think we might all be buried at a convenient place? We could all be buried in France. That would be fine.\'94 \'93I don\'92t want to be buried in France,\'94 Nick said. \'93Well, then, we\'92ll have to get some convenient place in America. Couldn\'92t we all be buried out at the ranch?\'94 \'93That\'92s an idea.\'94 \'93Then I could stop and pray at the tomb of my grandfather on the way to the ranch.\'94 \'93You\'92re awfully practical.\'94 \'93Well, I don\'92t feel good never to have even visited the tomb of my grandfather.\'94 \'93We\'92ll have to go,\'94 Nick said. \'93I can see we\'92ll have to go.\'94 Part II Short Stories Published in Books or Magazines Subsequent to \'93The First Forty-nine\'94 One Trip Across YOU KNOW HOW IT IS THERE EARLY IN the morning in Havana with the bums still asleep against the walls of the buildings; before even the ice wagons come by with ice for the bars? Well, we came across the square from the dock to the Pearl of San Francisco Caf\'e9 to get coffee and there was only one beggar awake in the square and he was getting a drink out of the fountain. But when we got inside the caf\'e9 and sat down, there were the three of them waiting for us. We sat down and one of them came over. \'93Well,\'94 he said. \'93I can\'92t do it,\'94 I told him. \'93I\'92d like to do it as a favor. But I told you last night I couldn\'92t.\'94 \'93You can name your own price.\'94 \'93It isn\'92t that. I can\'92t do it. That\'92s all.\'94 The two others had come over and they stood there looking sad. They were nice-looking fellows all right and I would have liked to have done them the favor. \'93A thousand apiece,\'94 said the one who spoke good English. \'93Don\'92t make me feel bad,\'94 I told him. \'93I tell you true I can\'92t do it.\'94 \'93Afterwards, when things are changed, it would mean a good deal to you.\'94 \'93I know it. I\'92m all for you. But I can\'92t do it.\'94 \'93Why not?\'94 \'93I make my living with the boat. If I lose her I lose my living.\'94 \'93With the money you buy another boat.\'94 \'93Not in jail.\'94 They must have thought I just needed to be argued into it because the one kept on. \'93You would have three thousand dollars and it could mean a great deal to you later. All this will not last, you know.\'94 \'93Listen,\'94 I said. \'93I don\'92t care who is President here. But I don\'92t carry anything to the States that can talk.\'94 \'93You mean we would talk?\'94 one of them who hadn\'92t spoken said. He was angry. \'93I said anything that can talk.\'94 \'93Do you think we are lenguas largas?\'94 \'93No.\'94 \'93Do you know what a lengua larga is?\'94 \'93Yes. One with a long tongue.\'94 \'93Do you know what we do with them?\'94 \'93Don\'92t be tough with me,\'94 I said. \'93You propositioned me. I didn\'92t offer you anything.\'94 \'93Shut up, Pancho,\'94 the one who had done the talking before said to the angry one. \'93He said we would talk,\'94 Pancho said. \'93Listen,\'94 I said. \'93I told you I didn\'92t carry anything that can talk. Sacked liquor can\'92t talk. Demijohns can\'92t talk. There\'92s other things that can\'92t talk. Men can talk.\'94 \'93Can Chinamen talk?\'94 Pancho said, pretty nasty. \'93They can talk, but I can\'92t understand them,\'94 I told him. \'93So you won\'92t?\'94 \'93It\'92s just like I told you last night. I can\'92t.\'94 \'93But you won\'92t talk?\'94 Pancho said. The one thing that he hadn\'92t understood right had made him nasty. I guess it was disappointment, too. I didn\'92t even answer him. \'93You\'92re not a lengua larga, are you?\'94 he asked, still nasty. \'93I don\'92t think so.\'94 \'93What\'92s that? A threat?\'94 \'93Listen,\'94 I told him. \'93Don\'92t be so tough so early in the morning. I\'92m sure you\'92ve cut plenty people\'92s throats. I haven\'92t even had my coffee yet.\'94 \'93So you\'92re sure I\'92ve cut people\'92s throats?\'94 \'93No,\'94 I said. \'93And I don\'92t give a damn. Can\'92t you do business without getting angry?\'94 \'93I am angry now,\'94 he said. \'93I would like to kill you.\'94 \'93Oh, hell,\'94 I told him, \'93don\'92t talk so much.\'94 \'93Come on, Pancho, the first one said. Then, to me, \'93I am very sorry. I wish you would take us.\'94 \'93I\'92m sorry, too. But I can\'92t.\'94 The three of them started for the door, and I watched them go. They were good-looking young fellows, wore good clothes; none of them wore hats, and they looked like they had plenty of money. They talked plenty of money, anyway, and they spoke the kind of English Cubans with money speak. Two of them looked like brothers and the other one, Pancho, was a little taller but the same sort of looking kid. You know, slim, good clothes, and shiny hair. I didn\'92t figure he was as mean as he talked. I figured he was plenty nervous. As they turned out of the door to the right, I saw a closed car come across the square toward them. The first thing a pane of glass went and the bullet smashed into the row of bottles on the showcase wall to the right. I heard the gun going and, bop, bop, bop, there were bottles smashing all along the wall. I jumped behind the bar on the left side and could see looking over the edge. The car was stopped and there were two fellows crouched down by it. One had a Thompson gun and the other had a sawed-off automatic shotgun. The one with the Thompson gun was a nigger. The other had a chauffeur\'92s white duster on. One of the boys was spread out on the sidewalk, face down, just outside the big window that was smashed. The other two were behind one of the Tropical beer ice wagons that was stopped in front of the Cunard bar next door. One of the ice-wagon horses was down in the harness, kicking, and the other was plunging his head off. One of the boys shot from the rear corner of the wagon and it ricocheted off the sidewalk. The nigger with the tommy gun got his face almost into the street and gave the back of the wagon a burst from underneath and sure enough one came down, falling toward the sidewalk with his head above the curb. He flopped there, putting his hands over his head, and the chauffeur shot at him with the shotgun while the nigger put in a fresh pan, but it was a long shot. You could see the buckshot marks all over the sidewalk like silver splatters. The other fellow pulled the one who was hit back by the legs to behind the wagon, and I saw the nigger getting his face down on the paving to give them another burst. Then I saw old Pancho come around the corner of the wagon and step into the lee of the horse that was still up. He stepped clear of the horse, his face white as a dirty sheet, and got the chauffeur with the big Luger he had, holding it in both hands to keep it steady. He shot twice over the nigger\'92s head, coming on, and once low. He hit a tire on the car because I saw dust blowing in a spurt on the street as the air came out, and at ten feet the nigger shot him in the belly with his tommy gun, with what must have been the last shot in it because I saw him throw it down, and old Pancho sat down hard and went over forward. He was trying to come up, still holding onto the Luger, only he couldn\'92t get his head up, when the nigger took the shotgun that was lying against the wheel of the car by the chauffeur and blew the side of his head off. Some nigger. I took a quick one out of the first bottle I saw open and I couldn\'92t tell you yet what it was. The whole thing made me feel pretty bad. I slipped along behind the bar and out through the kitchen in back and all the way out. I went clean around the outside of the square and never even looked over toward the crowd there was coming fast in front of the caf\'e9 and went in through the gate and out onto the dock and got on board. The fellow who had her chartered was on board waiting. I told him what had happened. \'93Where\'92s Eddy?\'94 this fellow Johnson that had her chartered asked me. \'93I never saw him after the shooting started.\'94 \'93Do you suppose he was hit?\'94 \'93Hell no. I tell you the only shots that came in the caf\'e9 were into the show case. That was when the car was coming behind them. That was when they shot the first fellow right in front of the window. They came at an angle like this\'97\'94 \'93You seem awfully sure about it,\'94 he said. \'93I was watching,\'94 I told him. Then, as I looked up, I saw Eddy coming along the dock looking taller and sloppier than ever. He walked with his joints all slung wrong. \'93There he is.\'94 Eddy looked pretty bad. He never looked too good early in the morning but he looked plenty bad now. \'93Where were you?\'94 I asked him. \'93On the floor.\'94 \'93Did you see it?\'94 Johnson asked him. \'93Don\'92t talk about it, Mr. Johnson,\'94 Eddy said to him. \'93It makes me sick to even think about it.\'94 \'93You better have a drink,\'94 Johnson told him. Then he said to me, \'93Well, are we going out?\'94 \'93That\'92s up to you.\'94 \'93What sort of a day will it be?\'94 \'93Just about like yesterday. Maybe better.\'94 \'93Let\'92s get out then.\'94 \'93All right, as soon as the bait comes.\'94 We\'92d had this bird out three weeks fishing the stream and I hadn\'92t seen any of his money yet except one hundred dollars he gave me to pay the consul and clear and get some grub and put gas in her before we came across. I was furnishing all the tackle and he had her chartered at thirty-five dollars a day. He slept at a hotel and came aboard every morning. Eddy got me the charter so I had to carry him. I was giving him four dollars a day. \'93I\'92ve got to put gas in her,\'94 I told Johnson. \'93All right.\'94 \'93I\'92ll need some money for that.\'94 \'93How much?\'94 \'93It\'92s twenty-eight cents a gallon. I ought to put in forty gallons anyway. That\'92s eleven-twenty.\'94 He got out fifteen dollars. \'93Do you want to put the rest on the beer and the ice?\'94 I asked him. \'93That\'92s fine,\'94 he said. \'93Just put it down against what I owe you.\'94 I was thinking three weeks was a long time to let him go but if he was good for it what difference was there? He should have paid every week anyway. But I\'92ve let them run a month and got the money. It was my fault but I was glad to see it run at first. It was only the last few days he made me nervous but I didn\'92t want to say anything for fear of getting him plugged at me. If he was good for it, the longer he went the better. \'93Have a bottle of beer?\'94 he asked me, opening the box. \'93No thanks.\'94 Just then this nigger we had getting bait comes down the dock and I told Eddy to get ready to cast her off. The nigger came on board with the bait and we cast off and started out of the harbor, the nigger fixing on a couple of mackerel; passing the hook through their mouth, out the gills, slitting the side and then putting the hook through the other side and out, tying the mouth shut on the wire leader and tying the hook good so it couldn\'92t slip and so the bait would troll smooth without spinning. He\'92s a real black nigger, smart and gloomy, with blue voodoo beads around his neck under his shirt and an old straw hat. What he liked to do on board was sleep and read the papers. But he put on a nice bait and he was fast. \'93Can\'92t you put on a bait like that, Captain?\'94 Johnson asked me. \'93Yes, sir.\'94 \'93Why do you carry a nigger to do it?\'94 \'93When the big fish run you\'92ll see,\'94 I told him. \'93What\'92s the idea?\'94 \'93The nigger can do it faster than I can.\'94 \'93Can\'92t Eddy do it?\'94 \'93No, sir.\'94 \'93It seems an unnecessary expense to me.\'94 He\'92d been giving the nigger a dollar a day and the nigger had been on a rumba every night. I could see him getting sleepy already. \'93He\'92s necessary,\'94 I said. By then we had passed the smacks with their fish cars anchored in front of Cabanas and the skiffs anchored fishing for mutton fish on the rock bottom by the Morro, and I headed her out where the gulf made a dark line. Eddy put the two big teasers out and the nigger had baits on three rods. The stream was in nearly to soundings and as we came toward the edge you could see her running nearly purple with regular whirlpools. There was a light east breeze coming up and we put up plenty of flying fish, those big ones that look like the picture of Lindbergh crossing the Atlantic when they sail off. Those big flying fish are the best sign there is. As far as you could see, there was that faded yellow gulfweed in small patches that means the main stream is well in and there were birds ahead working over a school of little tuna. You could see them jumping; just little ones weighing a couple of pounds apiece. \'93Put out any time you want,\'94 I told Johnson. He put on his belt and his harness and put out the big rod with the Hardy reel with six hundred yards of thirty-six thread. I looked back and his bait was trolling nice, just bouncing along on the swell and the two teasers were diving and jumping. We were going just about the right speed and I headed her into the stream. \'93Keep the rod butt in the socket on the chair,\'94 I told him. \'93Then the rod won\'92t be as heavy. Keep the drag off so you can slack to him when he hits. If one ever hits with the drag on he\'92ll jerk you overboard.\'94 Every day I\'92d have to tell him the same thing but I didn\'92t mind that. One out of fifty parties you get know how to fish. Then when they do know, half the time they\'92re goofy and want to use line that isn\'92t strong enough to hold anything big. \'93How does the day look?\'94 he asked me. \'93It couldn\'92t be better,\'94 I told him. It was a pretty day all right. I gave the nigger the wheel and told him to work along the edge of the stream to the eastward and went back to where Johnson was sitting watching his bait bouncing along. \'93Want me to put out another rod?\'94 I asked him. \'93I don\'92t think so,\'94 he said. \'93I want to hook, fight, and land my fish myself.\'94 \'93Good,\'94 I said. \'93Do you want Eddy to put it out and hand it to you if one strikes so you can hook him?\'94 \'93No,\'94 he said. \'93I prefer to have only one rod out.\'94 \'93All right.\'94 The nigger was still taking her out and I looked and saw he had seen a patch of flying fish burst out ahead and up the stream a little. Looking back, I could see Havana looking fine in the sun and a ship just coming out of the harbor past the Morro. \'93I think you\'92re going to have a chance to fight one today, Mr. Johnson,\'94 I told him. \'93It\'92s about time,\'94 he said. \'93How long have we been out?\'94 \'93Three weeks today.\'94 \'93That\'92s a long time to fish.\'94 \'93They\'92re a funny fish,\'94 I told him. \'93They aren\'92t here until they come. But when they come there\'92s plenty of them. And they\'92ve always come. If they don\'92t come now they\'92re never coming. The moon is right. There\'92s a good stream and we\'92re going to have a good breeze.\'94 \'93There were some small ones when we first came.\'94 \'93Yes,\'94 I said. \'93Like I told you. The small ones thin out and stop before the big ones come.\'94 \'93You party-boat captains always have the same line. Either it\'92s too early or too late or the wind isn\'92t right or the moon is wrong. But you take the money just the same.\'94 \'93Well,\'94 I told him, \'93the hell of it is that it usually is too early or too late and plenty of time the wind is wrong. Then when you get a day that\'92s perfect you\'92re ashore without a party.\'94 \'93But you think today\'92s a good day?\'94 \'93Well,\'94 I told him, \'93I\'92ve had action enough for me already today. But I\'92d like to bet you\'92re going to have plenty.\'94 \'93I hope so,\'94 he said. We settled down to troll. Eddy went forward and lay down. I was standing up watching for a tail to show. Every once in a while the nigger would doze off and I was watching him, too. I bet he had some nights. \'93Would you mind getting me a bottle of beer, Captain?\'94 Johnson asked me. \'93No, sir,\'94 I said, and I dug down in the ice to get him a cold one. \'93Won\'92t you have one?\'94 he asked. \'93No, sir,\'94 I said. \'93I\'92ll wait till tonight.\'94 I opened the bottle and was reaching it toward him when I saw this big brown bugger with a spear on him longer than your arm burst head and shoulders out of the water and smash at that mackerel. He looked as big around as a saw log. \'93Slack it to him!\'94 I yelled. \'93He hasn\'92t got it,\'94 Johnson said. \'93Hold it, then.\'94 He\'92d come up from deep down and missed it. I knew he\'92d turn and come for it again. \'93Get ready to turn it loose to him the minute he grabs it.\'94 Then I saw him coming from behind under water. You could see his fins out wide like purple wings and the purple stripes across the brown. He came on like a submarine and his top fin came out and you could see it slice the water. Then he came right behind the bait and his spear came out too, sort of wagging clean out of water. \'93Let it go into his mouth,\'94 I said. Johnson took his hand off the reel spool and it started to whiz and the old marlin turned and went down and I could see the whole length of him shine bright silver as he turned broadside and headed off fast toward shore. \'93Put on a little drag,\'94 I said. \'93Not much.\'94 He screwed down on the drag. \'93Not too much,\'94 I said. I could see the line slant up. \'93Shut her down hard and sock him,\'94 I said. \'93You\'92ve got to sock him. He\'92s going to jump anyway.\'94 Johnson screwed the drag down and came back on the rod. \'93Sock him,\'94 I told him. \'93Stick it into him. Hit him half a dozen times.\'94 He hit him pretty hard a couple of times more, and then the rod bent double and the reel commenced to screech and out he came, boom, in a long straight jump, shining silver in the sun and making a splash like throwing a horse off a cliff. \'93Ease up on the drag,\'94 I told him. \'93He\'92s gone,\'94 said Johnson. \'93The hell he is,\'94 I told him. \'93Ease up on the drag quick.\'94 I could see the curve in the line and the next time he jumped he was astern and headed out to sea. Then he came out again and smashed the water white and I could see he was hooked in the side of his mouth. The stripes showed clear on him. He was a fine fish, bright silver now, barred with purple and as big around as a log. \'93He\'92s gone,\'94 Johnson said. The line was slack. \'93Reel on him,\'94 I said. \'93He\'92s hooked good. Put her ahead with all the machine!\'94 I yelled to the nigger. Then once, twice, he came out stiff as a post, the whole length of him jumping straight toward us, throwing the water high each time he landed. The line came taut and I saw he was headed inshore again and I could see he was turning. \'93Now he\'92ll make his run,\'94 I said. \'93If he hooks up I\'92ll chase him. Keep your drag light. There\'92s plenty of line.\'94 The old marlin headed out to the nor\'92west like all the big ones go, and brother, did he hook up. He started jumping in those long lopes and every splash would be like a speed boat in a sea. We went after him, keeping him on the quarter once I\'92d made the turn. I had the wheel and I kept yelling to Johnson to keep his drag light and reel fast. All of a sudden I see his rod jerk and the line go slack. It wouldn\'92t look slack unless you knew about it because of the pull of the belly of the line in the water. But I knew. \'93He\'92s gone,\'94 I told him. The fish was still jumping and he went on jumping until he was out of sight. He was a fine fish all right. \'93I can still feel him pull,\'94 Johnson said. \'93That\'92s the weight of the line.\'94 \'93I can hardly reel it. Maybe he\'92s dead.\'94 \'93Look at him,\'94 I said. \'93He\'92s still jumping.\'94 You could see him out a half a mile, still throwing spouts of water. I felt his drag. He had it screwed down tight. You couldn\'92t pull out any line. It had to break. \'93Didn\'92t I tell you to keep your drag light?\'94 \'93But he kept taking out line.\'94 \'93So what?\'94 \'93So I tightened it.\'94 \'93Listen,\'94 I told him. \'93If you don\'92t give them line when they hook up like that they break it. There isn\'92t any line will hold them. When they want it you\'92ve got to give it to them. You have to keep a light drag. The market fishermen can\'92t hold them tight when they do that even with a harpoon line. What we have to do is use the boat to chase them so they don\'92t take it all when they make their run. After they make their run they\'92ll sound and you can tighten up the drag and get it back.\'94 \'93Then if it hadn\'92t broken I would have caught him?\'94 \'93You\'92d have had a chance.\'94 \'93He couldn\'92t have kept that up, could he?\'94 \'93He can do plenty of other things. It isn\'92t until after he\'92s made his run that the fight starts.\'94 \'93Well, let\'92s catch one,\'94 he said. \'93You have to reel that line in first,\'94 I told him. We\'92d hooked that fish and lost him without waking Eddy up. Now old Eddy came back astern. \'93What\'92s the matter?\'94 he said. Eddy was a good man on a boat once, before he got to be a rummy, but he isn\'92t any good now. I looked at him standing there tall and hollowcheeked with his mouth loose and that white stuff in the corners of his eyes and his hair all faded in the sun. I knew he woke up dead for a drink. \'93You\'92d better drink a bottle of beer,\'94 I told him. He took one out of the box and drank it. \'93Well, Mr. Johnson,\'94 he said, \'93I guess I better finish my nap. Much obliged for the beer, sir.\'94 Some Eddy. The fish didn\'92t make any difference to him. Well, we hooked another one around noon and he jumped off. You could see the hook go thirty feet in the air when he threw it. \'93What did I do wrong then?\'94 Johnson asked. \'93Nothing,\'94 I said. \'93He just threw it.\'94 \'93Mr. Johnson,\'94 said Eddy, who\'92d waked up to have another bottle of beer\'97 \'93Mr. Johnson, you\'92re just unlucky. Now maybe you\'92re lucky with women. Mr. Johnson, what do you say we go out tonight?\'94 Then he went back and lay down again. About four o\'92clock when we\'92re coming back close in to shore against the stream, it going like a mill race, us with the sun at our backs, the biggest black marlin I ever saw in my life hit Johnson\'92s bait. We\'92d put out a feather squid and caught four of those little tuna and the nigger put one on his hook for bait. It trolled pretty heavy but it made a big splash in the wake. Johnson took the harness off the reel so he could put the rod across his knees because his arms got tired holding it in position all the time. Because his hands got tired holding the spool of the reel against the drag of the big bait, he screwed the drag down when I wasn\'92t looking. I never knew he had it down. I didn\'92t like to see him hold the rod that way but I hated to be crabbing at him all the time. Besides, with the drag off, line would go out so there wasn\'92t any danger. But it was a sloppy way to fish. I was at the wheel and was working the edge of the stream opposite that old cement factory where it makes deep so close in to shore and where it makes a son of eddy where there is always lots of bait. Then I saw a splash like a depth bomb and the sword and eye and open lower jaw and huge purple-black head of a black marlin. The whole top fin was up out of water looking as high as a fullrigged ship, and the whole scythe tall was out as he smashed at that tuna. The bill was as big around as a baseball bat and slanted up, and as he grabbed the bait he sliced the ocean wide open. He was solid purple-black and he had an eye as big as a soup bowl. He was huge. I bet he\'92d go a thousand pounds. I yelled to Johnson to let him have line but before I could say a word I saw Johnson rise up in the air off the chair as though he was being derricked, and him holding just for a second onto that rod and the rod bending like a bow, and then the butt caught him in the belly and the whole works went overboard. He\'92d screwed the drag tight, and when the fish struck, it lifted Johnson right out of the chair and he couldn\'92t hold it. He\'92d had the butt under one leg and the rod across his lap. If he\'92d had the harness on it would have taken him along, too. I cut out the engine and went back to the stern. He was sitting there holding onto his belly where the rod butt had hit him. \'93I guess that\'92s enough for today,\'94 I said. \'93What was it?\'94 he said to me. \'93Black marlin,\'94 I said. \'93How did it happen?\'94 \'93You figure it out,\'94 I said. \'93The reel cost two hundred and fifty dollars. It costs more now. The rod cost me forty-five. There was a little under six hundred yards of thirty-six thread.\'94 Just then Eddy slaps him on the back. \'93Mr. Johnson,\'94 he says, \'93you\'92re just unlucky. You know I never saw that happen before in my life.\'94 \'93Shut up, you rummy,\'94 I said to him. \'93I tell you, Mr. Johnson,\'94 Eddy said, \'93that\'92s the rarest occurrence I ever saw in my life.\'94 \'93What would I do if I was hooked to a fish like that?\'94 Johnson said. \'93That\'92s what you wanted to fight all by yourself,\'94 I told him. I was plenty sore. \'93They\'92re too big,\'94 Johnson said. \'93Why, it would just be punishment.\'94 \'93Listen,\'94 I said. \'93A fish like that would kill you.\'94 \'93They catch them.\'94 \'93People who know how to fish catch them. But don\'92t think they don\'92t take punishment.\'94 \'93I saw a picture of a girl who caught one.\'94 \'93Sure,\'94 I said. \'93Still fishing. He swallowed the bait and they pulled his stomach out and he came to the top and died. I\'92m talking about trolling them when they\'92re hooked in the mouth.\'94 \'93Well,\'94 said Johnson, \'93they\'92re too big. If it isn\'92t enjoyable, why do it?\'94 \'93That\'92s right, Mr. Johnson,\'94 Eddy said. \'93If it isn\'92t enjoyable, why do it? Listen, Mr. Johnson. You hit the nail on the head there. If it isn\'92t enjoyable\'97why do it?\'94 I was still shaky from seeing that fish and feeling plenty sick about the tackle and I couldn\'92t listen to them. I told the nigger to head her for the Morro. I didn\'92t say anything to them and there they sat, Eddy in one of the chairs with a bottle of beer and Johnson with another. \'93Captain,\'94 he said to me after a while, \'93could you make me a highball?\'94 I made him one without saying anything, and then I made myself a real one. I was thinking to myself that this Johnson had fished fifteen days, finally he hooks into a fish a fisherman would give a year to tie into, he loses him, he loses my heavy tackle, he makes a fool of himself and he sits there perfectly content drinking with a rummy. When we got in to the dock and the nigger was standing there waiting, I said, \'93What about tomorrow?\'94 \'93I don\'92t think so,\'94 Johnson said. \'93I\'92m about fed up with this kind of fishing.\'94 \'93You want to pay off the nigger?\'94 \'93How much do I owe him?\'94 \'93A dollar. You can give him a tip if you want.\'94 So Johnson gave the nigger a dollar and two Cuban twenty-cent pieces. \'93What\'92s this for?\'94 the nigger asks me, showing the coins. \'93A tip,\'94 I told him in Spanish. \'93You\'92re through. He gives you that.\'94 \'93Don\'92t come tomorrow?\'94 \'93No.\'94 The nigger gets his ball of twine he used for tying baits and his dark glasses, puts on his straw hat and goes without saying good-bye. He was a nigger that never thought much of any of us. \'93When do you want to settle up, Mr. Johnson?\'94 I asked him. \'93I\'92ll go to the bank in the morning,\'94 Johnson said. \'93We can settle up in the afternoon.\'94 \'93Do you know how many days there are?\'94 \'93Fifteen.\'94 \'93No. There\'92s sixteen with today and a day each way makes eighteen. Then there\'92s the rod and reel and the line from today.\'94 \'93The tackle\'92s your risk.\'94 \'93No, sir. Not when you lose it that way.\'94 \'93I\'92ve paid every day for the rent of it. It\'92s your risk.\'94 \'93No, sir,\'94 I said. \'93If a fish broke it and it wasn\'92t your fault, that would be something else. You lost that whole outfit by carelessness.\'94 \'93The fish pulled it out of my hands.\'94 \'93Because you had the drag on and didn\'92t have the rod in the socket.\'94 \'93You have no business to charge for that.\'94 \'93If you hired a car and ran it off a cliff, don\'92t you think you\'92d have to pay for it?\'94 \'93Not if I was in it,\'94 Johnson said. \'93That\'92s pretty good, Mr. Johnson,\'94 Eddy said. \'93You see it, don\'92t you, Cap? If he was in it he\'92d be killed. So he wouldn\'92t have to pay. That\'92s a good one.\'94 I didn\'92t pay any attention to the rummy. \'93You owe two hundred and ninety five dollars for that rod and reel and line,\'94 I told Johnson. \'93Well, it\'92s not right,\'94 he said. \'93But if that\'92s the way you feel about it why not split the difference?\'94 \'93I can\'92t replace it for under three hundred and sixty. I\'92m not charging you for the line. A fish like that could get all your line and it not be your fault. If there was anyone here but a rummy they\'92d tell you how square I\'92m being with you. I know it seems like a lot of money but it was a lot of money when I bought the tackle, too. You can\'92t fish like that without the best tackle you can buy.\'94 \'93Mr. Johnson, he says I\'92m a rummy. Maybe I am. But I tell you he\'92s right. He\'92s right and he\'92s reasonable,\'94 Eddy told him. \'93I don\'92t want to make any difficulties,\'94 Johnson said finally. \'93I\'92ll pay for it, even though I don\'92t see it. That\'92s eighteen days at thirty-five dollars and two ninety-five extra.\'94 \'93You gave me a hundred,\'94 I told him. \'93I\'92ll give you a list of what I spent and I\'92ll deduct what grub there is left. What you bought for provisions going over and back.\'94 \'93That\'92s reasonable,\'94 Johnson said. \'93Listen, Mr. Johnson,\'94 Eddy said. \'93If you knew the way they usually charge a stranger you\'92d know it was more than reasonable. Do you know what it is? It\'92s exceptional. The cap is treating you like you were his own mother.\'94 \'93I\'92ll go to the bank tomorrow and come down in the afternoon. Then I\'92ll get the boat day after tomorrow.\'94 \'93You can go back with us and save the boat fare.\'94 \'93No,\'94 he said. \'93I\'92ll save time with the boat.\'94 \'93Well,\'94 I said. \'93What about a drink?\'94 \'93Fine,\'94 said Johnson. \'93No hard feelings now, are there?\'94 \'93No, sir,\'94 I told him. So the three of us sat there in the stern and drank a highball together. The next day I worked around her all morning, changing the oil in her base and one thing and another. At noon I went uptown and ate at a Chink place where you get a good meal for forty cents, and then I bought some things to take home to my wife and our three girls. You know, perfume, a couple of fans and two of those high combs. When I finished I stopped in at Donovan\'92s and had a beer and talked with the old man and then walked back to the San Francisco docks, stopping in at three or four places for a beer on the way. I bought Frankie a couple at the Cunard bar and I came on board feeling pretty good. When I came on board I had just forty cents left. Frankie came on board with me, and while we sat and waited for Johnson I drank a couple of cold ones out of the ice box with Frankie. Eddy hadn\'92t shown up all night or all day but I knew he would be around sooner or later, as soon as his credit ran out. Donovan told me he\'92d been in there the night before a little while with Johnson, and Eddy had been setting them up on credit. We waited and I began to wonder about Johnson not showing up. I\'92d left word at the dock for them to tell him to go on board and wait for me but they said he hadn\'92t come. Still, I figured he had been out late and probably didn\'92t get up till around noon. The banks were open until three-thirty. We saw the plane go out, and about five-thirty I was all over feeling good and was getting plenty worried. At six o\'92clock I sent Frankie up to the hotel to see if Johnson was there. I still thought he might be out on a time or he might be there at the hotel feeling too bad to get up. I kept waiting and waiting until it was late. But I was getting plenty worried because he owed me eight hundred and twenty-five dollars. Frankie was gone about a little over half an hour. When I saw him coming he was walking fast and shaking his head. \'93He went on the plane,\'94 he said. All right. There it was. The consulate was closed. I had forty cents, and anyhow the plane was in Miami by now. I couldn\'92t even send a wire. Some Mr. Johnson, all right. It was my fault. I should have known better. \'93Well,\'94 I said to Frankie, \'93we might as well have a cold one. Mr. Johnson bought them.\'94 There were three bottles of Tropical left. Frankie felt as bad as I did. I don\'92t know how he could but he seemed to. He just kept slapping me on the back and shaking his head. So there it was. I was broke. I\'92d lost five hundred and thirty dollars of the charter, and tackle I couldn\'92t replace for three hundred and fifty more. How some of that gang that hangs around the dock would be pleased at that, I thought. It certainly would make some conchs happy. And the day before I turned down three thousand dollars to land three aliens on the Keys. Anywhere, just to get them out of the country. All right, what was I going to do now? I couldn\'92t bring in a load because you have to have money to buy the booze and besides there\'92s no money in it any more. The town is flooded with it and there\'92s nobody to buy it. But I was damned if I was going home broke and starve a summer in that town. Besides I\'92ve got a family. The clearance was paid when we came in. You usually pay the broker in advance and he enters you and clears you. Hell, I didn\'92t even have enough money to put in gas. It was a hell of a note, all right. Some Mr. Johnson. \'93I\'92ve got to carry something, Frankie,\'94 I said. \'93I\'92ve got to make some money.\'94 \'93I\'92ll see,\'94 said Frankie. He hangs around the water front and does odd jobs and is pretty deaf and drinks too much every night. But you never saw a fellow more loyal nor with a better heart. I\'92ve known him since I first started to run over there. He used to help me load plenty of times. Then when I got handling stuff and went party-boating and broke out this swordfishing in Cuba I used to see him a lot around the dock and around the caf\'e9. He seems dumb and he usually smiles instead of talking but that\'92s because he\'92s deaf. \'93You carry anything?\'94 Frankie asked. \'93Sure,\'94 I said. \'93I can\'92t choose now.\'94 \'93Anything?\'94 \'93Sure.\'94 \'93I\'92ll see,\'94 Frankie said. \'93Where will you be?\'94 \'93I\'92ll be at the Perla,\'94 I told him. \'93I have to eat.\'94 You can get a good meal at the Perla for twenty-five cents. Everything on the menu is a dime except soup, and that is a nickel. I walked as far as there with Frankie, and I went in and he went on. Before he went he shook me by the hand and clapped me on the back again. \'93Don\'92t worry,\'94 he said. \'93Me Frankie much politics. Much business. Much drinking. No money. But big friend. Don\'92t worry.\'94 \'93So long, Frankie,\'94 I said. \'93Don\'92t you worry either, boy.\'94 I went in the Perla and sat down at a table. They had a new pane of glass in the window that had been shot up and the show case was all fixed up. There were a lot of gallegos drinking at the bar and some eating. One table was playing dominoes already. I had black bean soup and a beef stew with boiled potatoes for fifteen cents. A bottle of Hatuey beer brought it up to a quarter. When I spoke to the waiter about the shooting he wouldn\'92t say anything. They were all plenty scared. I finished the meal and sat back and smoked a cigarette and worried my head off. Then I saw Frankie coming in the door with someone behind him. Yellow stuff, I thought to myself. So it\'92s yellow stuff. \'93This is Mr. Sing,\'94 Frankie said, and he smiled. He\'92d been pretty fast all right and he knew it. \'93How do you do?\'94 said Mr. Sing. Mr. Sing was about the smoothest-looking thing I\'92d ever seen. He was a Chink all right, but he talked like an Englishman and he was dressed in a white suit with a silk shirt and black tie and one of those hundred-and-twenty-five-dollar Panama hats. \'93You will have some coffee?\'94 he asked me. \'93If you do.\'94 \'93Thank you,\'94 said Mr. Sing. \'93We are quite alone here?\'94 \'93Except for everybody in the caf\'e9,\'94 I told him. \'93That is all right,\'94 Mr. Sing said. \'93You have a boat?\'94 \'93Thirty-eight feet,\'94 I said. \'93Hundred horse Kermath.\'94 \'93Ah,\'94 said Mr. Sing. \'93I had imagined it was a lugger.\'94 \'93It can carry two hundred and sixty-five cases without being loaded.\'94 \'93Would you care to charter it to me?\'94 \'93On what terms?\'94 \'93You need not go. I will provide a captain and a crew.\'94 \'93No,\'94 I said. \'93I go on her wherever she goes.\'94 \'93I see,\'94 said Mr. Sing. \'93Would you mind leaving us?\'94 he said to Frankie. Frankie looked as interested as ever and smiled at him. \'93He\'92s deaf,\'94 I said. \'93He doesn\'92t understand much English.\'94 \'93I see,\'94 said Mr. Sing. \'93You speak Spanish. Tell him to rejoin us later.\'94 I motioned to Frankie with my thumb. He got up and went over to the bar. \'93You don\'92t speak Spanish?\'94 I said. \'93Oh, yes,\'94 said Mr. Sing. \'93Now what are the circumstances that would\'97that have made you consider \'85\'94 \'93I\'92m broke.\'94 \'93I see,\'94 said Mr. Sing. \'93Does the boat owe any money? Can she be libeled?\'94 \'93No.\'94 \'93Quite so,\'94 Mr. Sing said. \'93How many of my unfortunate compatriots could your boat accommodate?\'94 \'93You mean carry?\'94 \'93That\'92s it.\'94 \'93How far?\'94 \'93A day\'92s voyage.\'94 \'93I don\'92t know,\'94 I said. \'93She can take a dozen if they didn\'92t have any baggage.\'94 \'93They would not have baggage.\'94 \'93Where do you want to carry them?\'94 \'93I\'92d leave that to you,\'94 Mr. Sing said. \'93You mean where to land them?\'94 \'93You would embark them for the Tortugas where a schooner would pick them up.\'94 \'93Listen,\'94 I said. \'93There\'92s a lighthouse at the Tortugas on Loggerhead Key with a radio that works both ways.\'94 \'93Quite,\'94 said Mr. Sing. \'93It would certainly be very silly to land them there.\'94 \'93Then what?\'94 \'93I said you would embark them for there. That is what their passage calls for.\'94 \'93Yes,\'94 I said. \'93You would land them wherever your best judgment dictated.\'94 \'93Will the schooner come to Tortugas to get them?\'94 \'93Of course not,\'94 said Mr. Sing. \'93How silly.\'94 \'93How much are they worth a head?\'94 \'93Fifty dollars,\'94 said Mr. Sing. \'93No.\'94 \'93How would seventy-five do?\'94 \'93What do you get a head?\'94 \'93Oh, that\'92s quite beside the point. You see, there are a great many facets, or shall we say angles, to my issuing the tickets. It doesn\'92t stop there.\'94 \'93Yes,\'94 I said. \'93And what I\'92m supposed to do doesn\'92t have to be paid for, either. Eh?\'94 \'93I see your point absolutely,\'94 said Mr. Sing. \'93Should we say a hundred dollars apiece?\'94 \'93Listen,\'94 I said. \'93Do you know how long I would go to jail if they pick me up on this?\'94 \'93Ten years,\'94 said Mr. Sing. \'93Ten years at least. But there is no reason to go to jail, my dear Captain. You run only one risk\'97when you load your passengers. Everything else is left to your discretion.\'94 \'93And if they come back on your hands?\'94 \'93That\'92s quite simple. I would accuse you to them of having betrayed me. I will make a partial refund and ship them out again. They realize, of course, that it is a difficult voyage.\'94 \'93What about me?\'94 \'93I suppose I should send some word to the consulate.\'94 \'93I see.\'94 \'93Twelve hundred dollars, Captain, is not to be despised at present.\'94 \'93When would I get the money?\'94 \'93Two hundred when you agree and a thousand when you load.\'94 \'93If I would go off with the two hundred?\'94 \'93I could do nothing, of course,\'94 he smiled. \'93But I know you wouldn\'92t do such a thing, Captain.\'94 \'93Have you got the two hundred with you?\'94 \'93Of course.\'94 \'93Put it under the plate.\'94 He did. \'93All right,\'94 I said. \'93I\'92ll clear in the morning and pull out at dark. Now, where do we load?\'94 \'93How would Bacuranao be?\'94 \'93All right. Have you got it fixed?\'94 \'93Of course.\'94 \'93Now, about the loading,\'94 I said. \'93You show two lights, one above the other, at the point. I\'92ll come in when I see them. You come out in a boat and load from the boat. You come yourself and you bring the money. I won\'92t take one on board until I have it.\'94 \'93No,\'94 he said; \'93one-half when you start to load and the other when you are finished.\'94 \'93All right,\'94 I said. \'93That\'92s reasonable.\'94 \'93So everything is understood?\'94 \'93I guess so,\'94 I said. \'93There\'92s no baggage and no arms. No guns, knives, or razors; nothing. I have to know about that.\'94 \'93Captain,\'94 said Mr. Sing, \'93have you no trust in me? Don\'92t you see our interests are identical?\'94 \'93You\'92ll make sure?\'94 \'93Please do not embarrass me,\'94 he said. \'93Do you not see how our interests coincide?\'94 \'93All right,\'94 I told him. \'93What time will you be there?\'94 \'93Before midnight.\'94 \'93All right,\'94 I said. \'93I guess that\'92s all.\'94 \'93How do you want the money?\'94 \'93In hundreds is all right.\'94 He stood up and I watched him go out. Frankie smiled at him as he went. He was a smooth- looking Chink all right. Some Chink. Frankie came over to the table. \'93Well?\'94 he said. \'93Where did you know Mr. Sing?\'94 \'93He ships Chinamen,\'94 Frankie said. \'93Big business.\'94 \'93How long you know him?\'94 \'93He\'92s here about two years,\'94 Frankie said. \'93Another one ship them before him. Somebody kill him.\'94 \'93Somebody will kill Mr. Sing, too.\'94 \'93Sure,\'94 said Frankie. \'93Why not? Plenty big business.\'94 \'93Some business,\'94 I said. \'93Big business,\'94 said Frankie. \'93Ship Chinamen never come back. Other Chinamen write letters say everything fine.\'94 \'93Wonderful,\'94 I said. \'93This kind of Chinamen no understand write. Chinamen can write all rich. Eat nothing. Live on rice. Hundred thousand Chinamen here. Only three Chinese women.\'94 \'93Why?\'94 \'93Government no let.\'94 \'93Hell of a situation,\'94 I said. \'93You do business him?\'94 \'93Maybe.\'94 \'93Good business,\'94 said Frankie. \'93Better than politics. Much money. Plenty big business.\'94 \'93Have a bottle of beer,\'94 I told him. \'93You not worry any more?\'94 \'93Hell no,\'94 I said. \'93Plenty big business. Much obliged.\'94 \'93Good,\'94 said Frankie and patted me on the back. \'93Make me happier than nothing. All I want is you happy. Chinamen good business, eh?\'94 \'93Wonderful.\'94 \'93Make me happy,\'94 said Frankie. I saw he was about ready to cry because he was so pleased everything was all right, so I patted him on the back. Some Frankie. First thing in the morning I got hold of the broker and told him to clear us. He wanted the crew list and I told him nobody. \'93You\'92re going to cross alone, Captain?\'94 \'93That\'92s right.\'94 \'93What\'92s become of your mate?\'94 \'93He\'92s on a drunk,\'94 I told him. \'93It\'92s very dangerous to go alone.\'94 \'93It\'92s only ninety miles,\'94 I said. \'93Do you think having a rummy on board makes any difference?\'94 I ran her over to the Standard Oil dock across the harbor and filled up both the tanks. She held nearly two hundred gallons when I had her full. I hated to buy it at twenty-eight cents a gallon but I didn\'92t know where we might go. Ever since I\'92d seen the Chink and taken the money I\'92d been worrying about the business. I don\'92t think I slept all night. I brought her back to the San Francisco dock, and there was Eddy waiting on the dock for me. \'93Hello, Harry,\'94 he said to me and waved. I threw him the stern line and he made her fast, and then came aboard; longer, blearier, drunker than ever. I didn\'92t say anything to him. \'93What do you think about that fellow Johnson going off like that, Harry?\'94 he asked me. \'93What do you know about that?\'94 \'93Get out of here,\'94 I told him. \'93You\'92re poison to me.\'94 \'93Brother, don\'92t I feel as bad about it as you do?\'94 \'93Get off of her,\'94 I told him. He just settled back in the chair and stretched his legs out. \'93I hear we\'92re going across today,\'94 he said. \'93Well, I guess there isn\'92t any use to stay around.\'94 \'93You\'92re not going.\'94 \'93What\'92s the matter, Harry? There\'92s no sense to get plugged with me.\'94 \'93No? Get off her.\'94 \'93Oh, take it easy.\'94 I hit him in the face and he stood up and then climbed up onto the dock. \'93I wouldn\'92t do a thing like that to you, Harry,\'94 he said. \'93I\'92m not going to carry you,\'94 I told him. \'93That\'92s all.\'94 \'93Well, what did you have to hit me for?\'94 \'93So you\'92d believe it.\'94 \'93What do you want me to do? Stay here and starve?\'94 \'93Starve, hell,\'94 I said. \'93You can get work on the ferry. You can work your way back.\'94 \'93You aren\'92t treating me square,\'94 he said. \'93Who did you treat square, you rummy?\'94 I told him. \'93You\'92d double-cross your own mother.\'94 That was true, too. But I felt bad about hitting him. You know how you feel when you hit a drunk. But I wouldn\'92t carry him the way things were now, not even if I wanted to. He started to walk off down the dock looking longer than a day without breakfast. Then he turned and came back. \'93How\'92s to let me take a couple of dollars, Harry?\'94 I gave him a five-dollar bill of the Chink\'92s. \'93I always knew you were my pal. Harry, why don\'92t you carry me?\'94 \'93You\'92re bad luck.\'94 \'93You\'92re just plugged,\'94 he said. \'93Never mind, old pal. You\'92ll be glad to see me yet.\'94 Now he had money he went off a good deal faster but I tell you it was poison to see him walk, even. He walked just like his joints were backwards. I went up to the Perla and met the broker and he gave me the papers and I bought him a drink. Then I had lunch and Frankie came in. \'93Fellow gave me this for you,\'94 he said and handed me a rolled-up sort of tube wrapped in paper and tied with a piece of red string. It looked like a photograph when I unwrapped it and I unrolled it thinking it was maybe a picture someone around the dock had taken of the boat. All right. It was a close-up picture of the head and chest of a dead nigger with his throat cut clear across from ear to ear and then stitched up neat and a card on his chest saying in Spanish: \'93This is what we do to lenguas largas.\'94 \'93Who gave it to you?\'94 I asked Frankie. He pointed out a Spanish boy that works around the docks who is just about gone with the con. This kid was standing at the lunch counter. \'93Ask him to come over.\'94 The kid came over. He said two young fellows gave it to him about eleven o\'92clock. They asked him if he knew me and he said yes. Then he gave it to Frankie for me. They gave him a dollar to see that I got it. They were well dressed, he said. \'93Politics,\'94 Frankie said. \'93Oh, yes,\'94 I said. \'93They think you told the police you were meeting those boys here that morning.\'94 \'93Oh, yes.\'94 \'93Bad politics,\'94 Frankie said. \'93Good thing you go.\'94 \'93Did they leave any message?\'94 I asked the Spanish boy. \'93No,\'94 he said. \'93Just to give you that.\'94 \'93I\'92m going to have to leave now,\'94 I said to Frankie. \'93Bad politics,\'94 Frankie said. \'93Very bad politics.\'94 I had all the papers in a bunch that the broker had given me and I paid the bill and walked out of that caf\'e9 and across the square and through the gate and I was plenty glad to come through the warehouse and get out on the dock. Those kids had me spooked all right. They were just dumb enough to think I\'92d tipped somebody off about that other bunch. Those kids were like Pancho. When they were scared they got excited, and when they got excited they wanted to kill somebody. I got on board and warmed up the engine. Frankie stood on the dock watching. He was smiling that funny deaf smile. I went back to him. \'93Listen,\'94 I said. \'93Don\'92t you get in any trouble about this.\'94 He couldn\'92t hear me. I had to yell it at him. \'93Me good politics,\'94 Frankie said. He cast her off. I waved to Frankie, who\'92d thrown the bowline on board, and I headed her out of the slip and dropped down the channel with her. A British freighter was going out and I ran along beside her and passed her. I went out the harbor and past the Morro and put her on the course for Key West; due north. I left the wheel and went forward and coiled up the bowline and then came back and held her on her course, spreading Havana out astern and then dropping it off behind us as we brought the mountains up. I dropped the Morro out of sight after a while and then the National Hotel and finally I could just see the dome of the Capitol. There wasn\'92t much current compared to the last day we had fished and there was only a light breeze. I saw a couple of smacks headed in toward Havana and they were coming from the westward so I knew the current was light. I cut the switch and killed the motor. There wasn\'92t any sense in wasting gas. I\'92d let her drift. When it got dark I could always pick up the light of the Morro or, if she drifted up too far, the lights of Cojimar, and steer in and run along to Bacuranao. I figured the way the current looked she would drift the twelve miles up to Bacuranao by dark and I\'92d see the lights of Barac\'f3a. Well, I killed the engine and climbed up forward to have a look around. All there was to see was the two smacks off to the westward headed in, and way back the dome of the Capitol standing up white out of the edge of the sea. There was some gulfweed on the stream and a few birds working, but not many. I sat up there awhile on top of the house and watched, but the only fish I saw were those little brown ones that rise around the gulfweed. Brother, don\'92t let anybody tell you there isn\'92t plenty of water between Havana and Key West. I was just on the edge of it. After a while I went down into the cockpit again and there was Eddy! \'93What\'92s the matter? What\'92s the matter with the engine?\'94 \'93She broke down.\'94 \'93Why haven\'92t you got the hatch up?\'94 \'93Oh, hell!\'94 I said. Do you know what he\'92d done? He\'92d come back again and slipped the forward hatch and gone down into the cabin and gone to sleep. He had two quarts with him. He\'92d gone into the first bodega he\'92d seen and bought it and come aboard. When I started out he woke up and went back to sleep again. When I stopped her out in the gulf and she began to roll a little with the swell it woke him up. \'93I knew you\'92d carry me, Harry,\'94 he said. \'93Carry you to hell,\'94 I said. \'93You aren\'92t even on the crew list. I\'92ve got a good mind to make you jump overboard now.\'94 \'93You\'92re an old joker, Harry,\'94 he said. \'93Us conchs ought to stick together when we\'92re in trouble.\'94 \'93You,\'94 I said, \'93with your mouth. Who\'92s going to trust your mouth when you\'92re hot?\'94 \'93I\'92m a good man, Harry. You put me to the test and see what a good man I am.\'94 \'93Get me the two quarts,\'94 I told him. I was thinking of something else. He brought them out and I took a drink from the open one and put them forward by the wheel. He stood there and I looked at him. I was sorry for him and for what I knew I\'92d have to do. Hell, I knew him when he was a good man. \'93What\'92s the matter with her, Harry?\'94 \'93She\'92s all right.\'94 \'93What\'92s the matter, then? What are you looking at me like that for?\'94 \'93Brother,\'94 I told him, and I was sorry for him, \'93you\'92re in plenty of trouble.\'94 \'93What do you mean, Harry?\'94 \'93I don\'92t know yet,\'94 I said. \'93I haven\'92t got it all figured out yet.\'94 We sat there awhile and I didn\'92t feel like talking to him any more. Once I knew it, it was hard to talk to him. Then I went below and got out the pump-gun and the Winchester thirty-thirty that I always had below in the cabin and hung them up in their cases from the top of the house where we hung the rods usually, right over the wheel where I could reach them. I keep them in those full-length clipped sheep\'92s-wool cases soaked in oil. That\'92s the only way you can keep them from rusting on a boat. I loosened up the pump and worked her a few times, and then filled her up and pumped one into the barrel. I put a shell in the chamber of the Winchester and filled up the magazine. I got out the Smith and Wesson thirty-eight special I had when I was on the police force up in Miami from under the mattress and cleaned and oiled it and filled it up and put it on my belt. \'93What\'92s the matter?\'94 Eddy said. \'93What the hell\'92s the matter?\'94 \'93Nothing,\'94 I told him. \'93What\'92s all the damn guns for?\'94 \'93I always carry them on board,\'94 I said. \'93To shoot birds that bother the baits or to shoot sharks cruising along the keys.\'94 \'93What\'92s the matter, damn it?\'94 said Eddy. \'93What\'92s the matter?\'94 \'93Nothing,\'94 I told him. I sat there with the old thirty-eight flopping against my leg when she rolled, and I looked at him. I thought, there\'92s no sense to do it now. I\'92m going to need him now. \'93We\'92re going to do a little job,\'94 I said. \'93In at Bacuranao. I\'92ll tell you what to do when it\'92s time.\'94 I didn\'92t want to tell him too far ahead because he would get to worrying and get so spooked he wouldn\'92t be any use. \'93You couldn\'92t have anybody better than me. Harry,\'94 he said. \'93I\'92m the man for you. I\'92m with you on anything.\'94 I looked at him, tall and bleary and shaky, and I didn\'92t say anything. \'93Listen, Harry. Would you give me just one?\'94 he asked me. \'93I don\'92t want to get the shakes.\'94 I gave him one and we sat and waited for it to get dark. It was a fine sunset and there was a nice light breeze, and when the sun got pretty well down I started the engine and headed her in slow toward land. We lay offshore about a mile in the dark. The current had freshened up with the sun down and I noticed it running in. I could see the Morro light way down to the westward and the glow of Havana, and the lights opposite us were Rinc\'f3n and Barac\'f3a. I headed her up against the current until I was past Bacuranao and nearly to Cojimar. Then I let her drift down. It was plenty dark but I could tell good where we were. I had all the lights out. \'93What\'92s it going to be, Harry?\'94 Eddy asked me. He was beginning to be spooked again. \'93What do you think?\'94 \'93I don\'92t know,\'94 he said. \'93You\'92ve got me worried.\'94 He was pretty close to the shakes and when he came near me he had a breath like a buzzard. \'93What time is it?\'94 \'93I\'92ll go down and see,\'94 he said. He came back up and said it was half past nine. \'93Are you hungry?\'94 I asked him. \'93No,\'94 he said. \'93You know I couldn\'92t eat, Harry.\'94 \'93All right,\'94 I told him. \'93You can have one.\'94 After he had it I asked him how he felt. He said he felt fine. \'93I\'92m going to give you a couple more in a little while,\'94 I told him. \'93I know you haven\'92t got any guts unless you\'92ve got rum and there isn\'92t much on board. So you\'92d better go easy.\'94 \'93Tell me what\'92s up,\'94 said Eddy. \'93Listen,\'94 I said, talking to him in the dark. \'93We\'92re going in to Bacuranao and pick up twelve Chinks. You take the wheel when I tell you to and do what I tell you to. We\'92ll take the twelve Chinks on board and we\'92ll lock them below forward. Go on forward now and fasten the hatch from the outside.\'94 He went up and I saw him shadowed against the dark. He came back and he said, \'93Harry, can I have one of those now?\'94 \'93No,\'94 I said. \'93I want you rum-brave. I don\'92t want you useless.\'94 \'93I\'92m a good man, Harry. You\'92ll see.\'94 \'93You\'92re a rummy,\'94 I said. \'93Listen. One Chink is going to bring those twelve out. He\'92s going to give me some money at the start. When they\'92re all on board he\'92s going to give me some more money. When you see him start to hand me money the second time you put her ahead and hook her up and head her out to sea. Don\'92t you pay any attention to what happens. You keep her going out no matter what happens. Do you understand?\'94 \'93Yes.\'94 \'93If any Chink starts bursting out of the cabin or coming through the hatch, once we\'92re out and under way, you take that pump-gun and blow them back as fast as they come out. Do you know how to use the pump-gun?\'94 \'93No. But you can show me.\'94 \'93You\'92d never remember. Do you know how to use the Winchester?\'94 \'93Just pump the lever and shoot it.\'94 \'93That\'92s right,\'94 I said. \'93Only don\'92t shoot any holes in the hull.\'94 \'93You\'92d better give me that other drink,\'94 Eddy said. \'93All right. I\'92ll give you a little one.\'94 I gave him a real one. I knew they wouldn\'92t make him drunk now; not pouring into all that fear. But each one would work for a little while. After he drank this Eddy said, just as though he was happy, \'93So we\'92re going to run Chinks. Well, by God, I always said I\'92d run Chinamen if I was ever broke.\'94 \'93But you never got broke before, eh?\'94 I said to him. He was funny all right. I gave him three more drinks to keep him brave before it was half past ten. It was funny watching him and it kept me from thinking about it myself. I hadn\'92t figured on all this wait. I\'92d planned to leave after dark, run out, just out of the glare, and coast along to Cojimar. At a little before eleven I saw the two lights show on the point. I waited a little while and then I took her in slow. Bacuranao is a cove where there used to be a big dock for loading sand. There is a little river that comes in when the rains open the bar across the mouth. The northers, in the winter, pile the sand up and close it. They used to go in with schooners and load guavas from the river and there used to be a town. But the hurricane took it and it is all gone now except one house that some gallegos built out of the shacks the hurricane blew down and that they use for a clubhouse on Sundays when they come out to swim and picnic from Havana. There is one other house where the delegate lives but it is back from the beach. Each little place like that all down the coast has a government delegate, but I figured the Chink must use his own boat and have him fixed. As we came in I could smell the sea grape and that sweet smell from the brush you get off the land. \'93Get up forward,\'94 I said to Eddy. \'93You can\'92t hit anything on that side,\'94 he said. \'93The reef\'92s on the other side as you go in.\'94 You see, he\'92d been a good man once. \'93Watch her,\'94 I said, and I took her in to where I knew they could see us. With no surf they could hear the engine. I didn\'92t want to wait around, not knowing whether they saw us or not, so I flashed the running lights on once, just the green and red, and turned them off. Then I turned her and headed her out and let her lay there, just outside, with the engine just ticking. There was quite a little swell that close in. \'93Come on back here,\'94 I said to Eddy and I gave him a real drink. \'93Do you cock it first with your thumb?\'94 he whispered to me. He was sitting at the wheel now, and I had reached up and had both the cases open and the butts pulled out about six inches. \'93That\'92s right.\'94 \'93Oh boy,\'94 he said. It certainly was wonderful what a drink would do to him and how quick. We lay there and I could see a light from the delegate\'92s house back through the bush. I saw the two lights on the point go down, and one of them moving off around the point. They must have blown the other one out. Then, in a little while, coming out of the cove, I see a boat come toward us with a man sculling. I could tell by the way he swung back and forth. I knew he had a big oar. I was pretty pleased. If they were sculling that meant one man. They came alongside. \'93Good evening. Captain,\'94 said Mr. Sing. \'93Come astern and put her broadside,\'94 I said to him. He said something to the man who was sculling but he couldn\'92t scull her backwards, so I took hold of the gunwale and passed her astern. There were eight men in the boat. The six Chinks, Mr. Sing, and the kid sculling. While I was pulling her astern I was waiting for something to hit me on top of the head but nothing did. I straightened up and let Mr. Sing hold onto the stern. \'93Let\'92s see what it looks like,\'94 I said. He handed it to me and I took it up to where Eddy was at the wheel and put on the binnacle light. I looked at it carefully. It looked all right to me and I turned off the light. Eddy was trembling. \'93Pour one yourself,\'94 I said. I saw him reach for the bottle and tip it up. I went back to the stern. \'93All right,\'94 I said. \'93Let six come on board.\'94 Mr. Sing and the Cuban that sculled were having a job holding their boat from knocking in what little swell there was. I heard Mr. Sing say something in Chink and all the Chinks in the boat started to climb onto the stern. \'93One at a time,\'94 I said. He said something again, and then one after another six Chinks came over the stern. They were all lengths and sizes. \'93Show them forward,\'94 I said to Eddy. \'93Right this way, gentlemen,\'94 said Eddy. By God, I knew he had taken a big one. \'93Lock the cabin,\'94 I said, when they were all in. \'93Yes, sir,\'94 said Eddy. \'93I will return with the others,\'94 said Mr. Sing. \'93O.K.,\'94 I told him. I pushed them clear and the boy with him started sculling off. \'93Listen,\'94 I said to Eddy. \'93You lay off that bottle. You\'92re brave enough now.\'94 \'93O.K., chief,\'94 said Eddy. \'93What\'92s the matter with you?\'94 \'93This is what I like to do,\'94 said Eddy. \'93You say you just pull it backward with your thumb?\'94 \'93You lousy rummy,\'94 I told him. \'93Give me a drink out of that.\'94 \'93All gone,\'94 said Eddy. \'93Sorry, chief.\'94 \'93Listen. What you have to do now is watch her when he hands me the money and put her ahead.\'94 \'93O.K., chief,\'94 said Eddy. I reached up and took the other bottle and got the corkscrew and drew the cork. I took a good drink and went back to the stem, putting the cork in tight and laying the bottle behind two wicker jugs full of water. \'93Here comes Mr. Sing,\'94 I said to Eddy. \'93Yes, sir,\'94 said Eddy. The boat came out sculling toward us. He brought her astern and I let them do the holding in. Mr. Sing had hold of the roller we had across the stern to slide a big fish on board. \'93Let them come aboard,\'94 I said, \'93one at a time.\'94 Six more assorted Chinks came on board over the stern. \'93Open up and show them forward,\'94 I told Eddy. \'93Yes, sir,\'94 said Eddy. \'93Lock the cabin.\'94 \'93Yes, sir.\'94 I saw he was at the wheel. \'93All right, Mr. Sing,\'94 I said. \'93Let\'92s see the rest of it.\'94 He put his hand in his pocket and reached the money out toward me. I reached for it and grabbed his wrist with the money in his hand, and as he came forward on the stern I grabbed his throat with the other hand. I felt her start and then churn ahead as she hooked up and I was plenty busy with Mr. Sing but I could see the Cuban standing in the stem of the boat holding the sculling oar through all the flopping and bouncing Mr. Sing was doing. He was flopping and bouncing worse than any dolphin on a gaff. I got his arm around behind him and came up on it but I brought it too far because I felt it go. When it went he made a funny little noise and came forward, me holding him throat and all, and bit me on the shoulder. But when I felt the arm go I dropped it. It wasn\'92t any good to him any more and I took him by the throat with both hands, and brother, that Mr. Sing would flop just like a fish, true, his loose arm flailing, but I got him forward onto his knees and had both thumbs well in behind his talk box and I bent the whole thing back until she cracked. Don\'92t think you can\'92t hear it crack, either. I held him quiet just a second, and then I laid him down across the stem. He lay there, face up, quiet, in his good clothes, with his feet in the cockpit, and I left him. I picked up the money off the cockpit floor and took it up and put it on the binnacle and counted it. Then I took the wheel and told Eddy to look under the stem for some pieces of iron that I used for anchoring whenever we fished bottom fishing on patches or rocky bottom where you wouldn\'92t want to risk an anchor. \'93I can\'92t find anything,\'94 he said. He was scared being down there by Mr. Sing. \'93Take the wheel,\'94 I said. \'93Keep her out.\'94 There was a certain amount of moving around going on below but I wasn\'92t spooked about them. I found a couple of pieces of what I wanted\'97iron from the old coaling dock at Tortugas\'97and I took some snapper line and made a couple of good big pieces fast to Mr. Sing\'92s ankles. Then when we were about two miles offshore I slid him over. He slid over smooth off the roller. I never even looked in his pockets. I didn\'92t feel like fooling with him. He\'92d bled a little on the stern from his nose and his mouth, and I dipped a bucket of water that nearly pulled me overboard the way we were going, and cleaned her off good with a scrub brush from under the stern. \'93Slow her down,\'94 I said to Eddy. \'93What if he floats up?\'94 Eddy said. \'93I dropped him in about seven hundred fathoms,\'94 I said. \'93He\'92s going down all that way. That\'92s a long way, brother. He won\'92t float till the gas brings him up and all the time he\'92s going with the current and baiting up fish. Hell,\'94 I said, \'93you don\'92t have to worry about Mr. Sing.\'94 \'93What did you have against him?\'94 Eddy asked me. \'93Nothing,\'94 I said. \'93He was the easiest man to do business with I ever met. I thought there must be something wrong all the time.\'94 \'93What did you kill him for?\'94 \'93To keep from killing twelve other Chinks,\'94 I told him. \'93Harry,\'94 he said, \'93you\'92ve got to give me one because I can feel them coming on. It made me sick to see his head all loose like that.\'94 So I gave him one. \'93What about the Chinks?\'94 Eddy said. \'93I want to get them out as quick as I can,\'94 I told him. \'93Before they smell up the cabin.\'94 \'93Where are you going to put them?\'94 \'93We\'92ll run them right in to the long beach,\'94 I told him. \'93Take her in now?\'94 \'93Sure,\'94 I said. \'93Take her in slow.\'94 We came in slow over the reef and to where I could see the beach shine. There is plenty of water over the reef and inside it\'92s all sandy bottom and slopes right in to shore. \'93Get up forward and give me the depth.\'94 He kept sounding with a grains pole, motioning me on with the pole. He came back and motioned me to stop. I came astern on her. \'93You\'92ve got about five feet.\'94 \'93We\'92ve got to anchor,\'94 I said. \'93If anything happens so we haven\'92t time to get her up, we can cut loose or break her off.\'94 Eddy paid out rope and when finally she didn\'92t drag he made her fast. She swung stern in. \'93It\'92s sandy bottom, you know,\'94 he said. \'93How much water have we got at the stern?\'94 \'93Not over five feet.\'94 \'93You take the rifle,\'94 I said. \'93And be careful,\'94 \'93Let me have one,\'94 he said. He was plenty nervous. I gave him one and took down the pump-gun. I unlocked the cabin door, opened it, and said: \'93Come on out.\'94 Nothing happened. Then one Chink put his head out and saw Eddy standing there with a rifle and ducked back. \'93Come on out. Nobody\'92s going to hurt you,\'94 I said. Nothing doing. Only lots of talk in Chink. \'93Come on out, you!\'94 Eddy said. My God, I knew he\'92d had the bottle. \'93Put that bottle away,\'94 I said to him, \'93or I\'92ll blow you out of the boat.\'94 \'93Come on out,\'94 I said to them, \'93or I\'92ll shoot in at you.\'94 I saw one of them looking at the corner of the door and he saw the beach evidently because he begins to chatter. \'93Come on,\'94 I said, \'93or I\'92ll shoot.\'94 Out they came. Now I tell you it would take a hell of a mean man to butcher a bunch of Chinks like that and I\'92ll bet there would be plenty of trouble, too, let alone mess. They came out and they were scared and they didn\'92t have any guns but there were twelve of them. I walked backwards down to the stem holding the pump gun. \'93Get overboard,\'94 I said. \'93It\'92s not over your heads.\'94 Nobody moved. \'93Over you go.\'94 Nobody moved. \'93You yellow rat-eating aliens,\'94 Eddy said, \'93get overboard.\'94 \'93Shut your drunken mouth,\'94 I told him. \'93No swim,\'94 one Chink said. \'93No need swim,\'94 I said. \'93No deep.\'94 \'93Come on, get overboard,\'94 Eddy said. \'93Come astern here,\'94 I said. \'93Take your gun in one hand and your grains pole in the other and show them how deep it is.\'94 He showed them. \'93No need swim?\'94 the one asked me. \'93No.\'94 \'93True?\'94 \'93Yes.\'94 \'93Where we?\'94 \'93Cuba.\'94 \'93You damn crook,\'94 he said and went over the side, hanging on and then letting go. His head went under but he came up and his chin was out of water. \'93Damn crook,\'94 he said. \'93Damn crook.\'94 He was mad and he was plenty brave. He said something in Chink and the others started going into the water off the stern. \'93All right,\'94 I said to Eddy. \'93Get the anchor up.\'94 As we headed her out, the moon started to come up and you could see the Chinks with just their heads out of water walking ashore, and the shine of the beach and the brush behind. We got out past the reef and I looked back once and saw the beach and the mountains starting to show up; then I put her on her course for Key West. \'93Now you can take a sleep,\'94 I said to Eddy. \'93No, wait, go below and open up all the ports to get the stink out and bring me the iodine.\'94 \'93What\'92s the matter?\'94 he said when he brought it. \'93I cut my finger.\'94 \'93Do you want me to steer?\'94 \'93Get a sleep,\'94 I said. \'93I\'92ll wake you up.\'94 He lay down on the built-in bunk in the cockpit, over the gas tank, and in a little while he was asleep. I held the wheel with my knee and opened up my shirt and saw where Mr. Sing bit me. It was quite a bite and I put iodine on it, and then I sat there steering and wondering whether a bite from a Chinaman was poisonous and listened to her running nice and smooth and the water washing along her and I figured, Hell no, that bite wasn\'92t poisonous. A man like that Mr. Sing probably scrubbed his teeth two or three times a day. Some Mr. Sing. He certainly wasn\'92t much of a business man. Maybe he was. Maybe he just trusted me. I tell you I couldn\'92t figure him. Well, now it was all simple except for Eddy. Because he\'92s a rummy he\'92ll talk when he gets hot. I sat there steering and I looked at him and I thought, Hell, he\'92s as well off dead as the way he is, and then I\'92m all clear. When I found he was on board I decided I\'92d have to do away with him but then when everything had come out so nice I didn\'92t have the heart. But looking at him lying there it certainly was a temptation. But then I thought there\'92s no sense spoiling it by doing something you\'92d be sorry for afterwards. Then I started to think he wasn\'92t even on the crew list and I\'92d have a fine to pay for bringing him in and I didn\'92t know how to consider him. Well, I had plenty of time to think about it and I held her on her course and every once in a while I\'92d take a drink out of the bottle he\'92d brought on board. There wasn\'92t much in it, and when I\'92d finished it, I opened up the only one I had left, and I tell you I felt pretty good steering, and it was a pretty night to cross. It had turned out a good trip all right, finally, even though it had looked plenty bad plenty of times. When it got daylight Eddy woke up. He said he felt terrible. \'93Take the wheel a minute,\'94 I told him. \'93I want to look around.\'94 I went back to the stem and threw a little water on her. But she was perfectly clean. I scrubbed the brush over the side. I unloaded the guns and stowed them below. But I still kept the gun on my belt. It was fresh and nice as you want it below, no smell at all. A little water had come in through the starboard port onto one of the bunks was all; so I shut the ports. There wasn\'92t a customhouse officer in the world could smell Chink in her now. I saw the clearance papers in the net bag hanging up under her framed license where I\'92d shoved them when I came on board and I took them out to look them over. Then I went up to the cockpit. \'93Listen,\'94 I said. \'93How did you get on the crew list?\'94 \'93I met the broker when he was leaving for the consulate and told him I was going.\'94 \'93God looks after rummies,\'94 I told him and I took the thirty-eight off and stowed it down below. I made some coffee down below and then I came up and took the wheel. \'93There\'92s coffee below,\'94 I told him. \'93Brother, coffee wouldn\'92t do me any good.\'94 You knew you had to be sorry for him. He certainly looked bad. About nine o\'92clock we saw the Sand Key light just about dead ahead. We\'92d seen tankers going up the gulf for quite a while. \'93We\'92ll be in now,\'94 I said to him. \'93I\'92m going to give you the same four dollars a day just as if Johnson had paid.\'94 \'93How much did you get out of last night?\'94 he asked me. \'93Only six hundred,\'94 I told him. I don\'92t know whether he believed me or not. \'93Don\'92t I share in it?\'94 \'93That\'92s your share,\'94 I told him. \'93What I just told you, and if you ever open your mouth about last night I\'92ll hear of it and I\'92ll do away with you.\'94 \'93You know I\'92m no squealer, Harry.\'94 \'93You\'92re a rummy. But no matter how rum dumb you get, if you ever talk about that, I promise you.\'94 \'93I\'92m a good man,\'94 he said. \'93You oughtn\'92t to talk to me like that.\'94 \'93They can\'92t make it fast enough to keep you a good man,\'94 I told him. But I didn\'92t worry about him any more, because who was going to believe him? Mr. Sing wouldn\'92t make any complaints. The Chinks weren\'92t going to. You know the boy that sculled them out wasn\'92t. Eddy would mouth about it sooner or later, maybe, but who believes a rummy? Why, who could prove anything? Naturally it would have made plenty more talk when they saw his name on the crew list. That was luck for me, all right. I could have said he fell overboard, but it makes plenty talk. Plenty of luck for Eddy, too. Plenty of luck, all right. Then we came to the edge of the stream and the water quit being blue and was light and greenish and inside I could see the stakes on the Long Reef and on the Western Dry Rocks and the wireless masts at Key West and the La Concha hotel up high out of all the low houses and plenty smoke from out where they\'92re burning garbage. Sand Key light was plenty close now and you could see the boathouse and the little dock alongside the light and I knew we were only forty minutes away now and I felt good to be getting back and I had a good stake now for the summertime. \'93What do you say about a drink, Eddy?\'94 I said to him. \'93Ah, Harry,\'94 he said, \'93I always knew you were my pal.\'94 The Tradesman\'92s Return THEY CAME ON ACROSS IN THE NIGHT AND it blew a big breeze from the northwest. When the sun was up he sighted a tanker coming down the gulf and she stood up so high and white with the sun on her in that cold air that it looked like tall buildings rising out of the sea and he said to the nigger, \'93Where the hell are we?\'94 The nigger raised himself up to look. \'93Ain\'92t nothing like that this side of Miami.\'94 \'93You know damn well we ain\'92t been carried up to no Miami,\'94 he told the nigger. \'93All I say ain\'92t no buildings like that on no Florida keys.\'94 \'93We\'92ve been steering for Sand Key.\'94 \'93We\'92ve got to see it then. It or American shoals.\'94 Then in a little while he saw it was a tanker and not buildings and then in less than an hour he saw Sand Key light, straight, thin and brown, rising out of the sea right where it ought to be. \'93You got to have confidence steering,\'94 he told the nigger. \'93I got confidence,\'94 the nigger said. \'93But the way this trip gone I ain\'92t got confidence no more.\'94 \'93How\'92s your leg?\'94 \'93It hurts me all the time.\'94 \'93It ain\'92t nothing,\'94 the man said. \'93You keep it clean and wrapped up and it\'92ll heal by itself.\'94 He was steering to the westward now to go in to lay up for the day in the mangroves by Woman Key where he would not see anybody and where the boat was to come out to meet them. \'93You\'92re going to be all right,\'94 he told the Negro. \'93I don\'92t know,\'94 the nigger said. \'93I hurt bad.\'94 \'93I\'92m going to fix you up good when we get in to the place,\'94 he told him. \'93You aren\'92t shot bad. Quit worrying.\'94 \'93I\'92m shot,\'94 he said. \'93I ain\'92t never been shot before. Anyway I\'92m shot is bad.\'94 \'93You\'92re just scared.\'94 \'93No sir. I\'92m shot. And I\'92m hurting bad. I\'92ve been throbbing all night.\'94 The nigger went on grumbling like that and he could not keep from taking the bandage off to look at it. \'93Leave it alone,\'94 the man who was steering told him. The nigger lay on the floor of the cockpit and there were sacks of liquor, shaped like hams, piled everywhere. He had made himself a place in them to lie down in. Every time he moved there was the noise of broken glass in the sacks and there was the odor of spilled liquor. The liquor had run all over everything. The man was steering in for Woman Key now. He could see it now plainly. \'93I hurt,\'94 the nigger said. \'93I hurt worse all the time.\'94 \'93I\'92m sorry, Wesley,\'94 the man said. \'93But I got to steer.\'94 \'93You treat a man no better than a dog,\'94 the nigger said. He was getting ugly now, but the man was still sorry for him. \'93I\'92m going to make you comfortable, Wesley,\'94 he said. \'93You lay quiet now.\'94 \'93You don\'92t care what happens to a man,\'94 the nigger said. \'93You ain\'92t hardly human.\'94 \'93I\'92m going to fix you up good,\'94 the man said. \'93You just lay quiet.\'94 \'93You ain\'92t going to fix me up,\'94 the nigger said. The man, whose name was Harry, said nothing then because he liked the nigger and there was nothing to do now but hit him, and he couldn\'92t hit him. The nigger kept on talking. \'93Why we didn\'92t stop when they started shooting?\'94 The man did not answer. \'93Ain\'92t a man\'92s life worth more than a load of liquor?\'94 The man was intent on his steering. \'93All we have to do is stop and let them take the liquor.\'94 \'93No,\'94 the man said. \'93They take the liquor and the boat and you go to jail.\'94 \'93I don\'92t mind jail,\'94 the nigger said. \'93But I never wanted to get shot.\'94 He was getting on the man\'92s nerves now and the man was becoming tired of hearing him talk. \'93Who the hell\'92s shot worse?\'94 he asked him. \'93You or me?\'94 \'93You\'92re shot worse,\'94 the nigger said. \'93But I ain\'92t never been shot. I didn\'92t figure to get shot. I ain\'92t paid to get shot. I don\'92t want to be shot.\'94 \'93Take it easy, Wesley,\'94 the man told him. \'93It don\'92t do you any good to talk like that.\'94 They were coming up on the key now. They were inside the shoals and as he headed her into the channel it was hard to see with the sun on the water. The nigger was going out of his head, or becoming religious because he was hurt; anyway he was talking all the time. \'93Why they ran liquor now?\'94 he said. \'93Prohibition\'92s over. Why they keep up a traffic like that? Whyn\'92t they bring the liquor in on the ferry?\'94 The man steering was watching the channel closely. \'93Why don\'92t people be honest and decent and make a decent honest living?\'94 The man saw where the water was rippling smooth off the bank even when he could not see the bank in the sun and he named her off. He swung her around, spinning the wheel with one arm, and then the channel opened out and he took her slowly right up to the edge of the mangroves. He came astern on the engines and threw out the two clutches. \'93I can put a anchor down,\'94 he said. \'93But I can\'92t get no anchor up.\'94 \'93I can\'92t even move,\'94 the nigger said. \'93You\'92re certainly in a hell of a shape,\'94 the man told him. He had a difficult time breaking out, lifting and dropping the small anchor but he got it over, and paid out quite a lot of rope and the boat swung in against the mangroves so they came right into the cockpit. Then he went back and down into the cockpit. He thought the cockpit was a hell of a sight, all right. All night after he had dressed the nigger\'92s wound and the nigger had bandaged his arm he had been watching the compass, steering, and when it came daylight he had seen the nigger lying there in the sacks in the middle of the cockpit, but then he was watching the seas and the compass and looking for the Sand Key light and he had never observed carefully how things were. Things were bad. The nigger was lying in the middle of the load of sacked liquor with his leg up. There were eight bullet holes through the cockpit splintered wide. The glass was broken in the windshield. He did not know how much stuff was smashed and wherever the nigger had not bled he himself had bled. But the worst thing, the way he felt at the moment, was the smell of booze. Everything was soaked in it. Now the boat was lying quietly against the mangroves but he could not stop feeling the motion of the big sea they had been in all night in the gulf. \'93I\'92m going to make some coffee,\'94 he told the nigger. \'93Then I\'92ll fix you up again.\'94 \'93I don\'92t want no coffee.\'94 \'93I do,\'94 the man told him. But down below he began to feel dizzy so he came out on deck again. \'93I guess we won\'92t have coffee,\'94 he said. \'93I want some water.\'94 \'93All right.\'94 He gave the Negro a cup of water out of a demijohn. \'93Why you want to keep on running for when they started to shoot?\'94 \'93Why they want to shoot?\'94 the man answered. \'93I want a doctor,\'94 the nigger told him. \'93What\'92s a doctor going to do that I ain\'92t done for you?\'94 \'93Doctor going to cure me.\'94 \'93You\'92ll have a doctor tonight when the boat comes out.\'94 \'93I don\'92t want to wait for no boat.\'94 \'93All right,\'94 the man said. \'93We\'92re going to dump this liquor now.\'94 He started to dump it and it was hard work one-handed. A sack of liquor only weighs about forty pounds but he had not dumped very many of them before he became dizzy again. He sat down in the cockpit and then he lay down. \'93You going to kill yourself,\'94 the nigger said. The man lay quietly in the cockpit with his head against one of the sacks. The branches of the mangroves had come into the cockpit and they made a shadow over him where he lay. He could hear the wind above the mangroves and looking out at the high, cold sky see the thin brown clouds of the norther. \'93Nobody going to come out with this breeze,\'94 he thought. \'93They won\'92t look for us to have started with this blowing.\'94 \'93You think they\'92ll come out?\'94 the nigger asked. \'93Sure,\'94 the man said. \'93Why not?\'94 \'93It\'92s blowing too hard.\'94 \'93They\'92re looking for us.\'94 \'93Not with it like this. What you want to lie to me for?\'94 The nigger was talking with his mouth almost against a sack. \'93Take it easy, Wesley,\'94 the man told him. \'93Take it easy, the man says,\'94 the nigger went on. \'93Take it easy. Take what easy? Take dyin\'92 like a dog easy? You got me here. Get me out.\'94 \'93Take it easy,\'94 the man said, kindly. \'93They ain\'92t coming,\'94 the nigger said. \'93I know they ain\'92t coming. I\'92m cold I tell you. I can\'92t stand this pain and cold I tell you.\'94 The man sat up feeling hollow and unsteady. The nigger\'92s eyes watched him as he rose on one knee, his right arm dangling, took the hand of his right arm in his left hand and placed it between his knees and then pulled himself up by the plank nailed above the gunwale until he stood, looking down at the nigger, his right hand still held between his thighs. He was thinking that he had never really felt pain before. \'93If I keep it out straight, pulled out straight, it don\'92t hurt so bad,\'94 he said. \'93Let me tie it up in a sling,\'94 the nigger said. \'93I can\'92t make a bend in the elbow,\'94 the man said. \'93It stiffened that way.\'94 \'93What we goin\'92 to do?\'94 \'93Dump this liquor,\'94 the man told him. \'93Can\'92t you put over what you can reach, Wesley?\'94 The nigger tried to move to reach a sack, then groaned and lay back. \'93Do you hurt that bad, Wesley?\'94 \'93Oh God,\'94 the nigger said. \'93You don\'92t think once you moved it it wouldn\'92t hurt so bad?\'94 \'93I\'92m shot,\'94 the nigger said. \'93I ain\'92t going to move. The man wants me to go to dumpin\'92 liquor when I\'92m shot.\'94 \'93Take it easy.\'94 \'93You say that once more I go crazy.\'94 \'93Take it easy,\'94 the man said quietly. The nigger made a howling noise and shuffling with his hands on the deck picked up the whetstone from under the coaming. \'93I\'92ll kill you,\'94 he said. \'93I\'92ll cut your heart out.\'94 \'93Not with no whetstone,\'94 the man said. \'93Take it easy, Wesley.\'94 The nigger blubbered with his face against a sack. The man went on slowly lifting the sacked packages of liquor and dropping them over the side. While he was dumping the liquor he heard the sound of a motor and looking he saw a boat headed toward them coming down the channel around the end of the key. It was a white boat with a buff painted house and a windshield. \'93Boat coming,\'94 he said. \'93Come on Wesley.\'94 \'93I can\'92t.\'94 \'93I\'92m remembering from now on,\'94 the man said. \'93Before was different.\'94 \'93Go ahead an\'92 remember,\'94 The nigger told him. \'93I ain\'92t forgot nothing either.\'94 Working fast now, the sweat running down his face, not stopping to watch the boat coming slowly down the channel, the man picked up the sacked packages of liquor with his good arm and dropped them over the side. \'93Roll over.\'94 He reached for the package under the nigger\'92s head and swung it over the side. The nigger raised himself up and looked. \'93Here they are,\'94 he said. The boat was almost abeam of them. \'93It\'92s Captain Willie,\'94 the nigger said. \'93With a party.\'94 In the stern of the white boat two men in flannels and white cloth hats sat in fishing chairs trolling and an old man in a felt hat and a windbreaker held the tiller and steered the boat close past the mangroves where the booze boat lay. \'93What you say, Harry?\'94 the old man called as he passed. The man called Harry waved his good arm in reply. The boat went on past, the two men who were fishing looking toward the booze boat and talking to the old man. Harry could not hear what they were saying. \'93He\'92ll make a turn at the mouth and come back,\'94 Harry said to the Negro. He went below and came up with a blanket. \'93Let me cover you up.\'94 \'93 \'92Bout time you cover me up. They couldn\'92t help but see that liquor. What we goin\'92 to do?\'94 \'93Willie\'92s a good skate,\'94 the man said. \'93He\'92ll tell them in town we\'92re out here. Those fellows fishing ain\'92t going to bother us. What they care about us?\'94 He felt very shaky now and he sat down on the steering seat and held his right arm tight between his thighs. His knees were shaking and with the shaking he could feel the ends of the bone in his upper arm grate. He opened his knees, lifted his arm out, and let it hang by his side. He was sitting there, his arm hanging, when the boat passed them coming back up the channel. The two men in the fishing chairs were talking. They had put up their rods and one of them was looking at them through a pair of glasses. They were too far out for him to hear what they were saying. It would not have helped him if he had heard it. On board the charter boat South Florida, trolling down the Woman Key channel because it was too rough to go out to the reef, Captain Willie Adams was thinking. So Harry crossed last night. That boy\'92s got cojones. He must have got that whole blow. She\'92s a sea boat all right. How you suppose he smashed his windshield? Damned if I\'92d cross a night like last night. Damned if I\'92d ever run liquor from Cuba. They bring it all from Mariel now! Just go in and out. It\'92s supposed to be wide open. \'93What\'92s that you say, Cap?\'94 \'93What boat is that?\'94 asked one of the men in the fishing chairs. \'93That boat?\'94 \'93Yes, that boat.\'94 \'93Oh that\'92s a Key West boat.\'94 \'93What I said was, whose boat is it?\'94 \'93I wouldn\'92t know that, Cap.\'94 \'93Is the owner a fisherman?\'94 \'93Well, some say he is.\'94 \'93What do you mean?\'94 \'93He does a little of everything.\'94 \'93You don\'92t know his name?\'94 \'93No sir.\'94 \'93You called him Harry.\'94 \'93Not me.\'94 \'93I heard you call him Harry.\'94 Captain Willie Adams took a good look at the man who was speaking to him. He saw a highcheekboned, thin-lipped, slightly pudgy face with deep set grey eyes and a contemptuous mouth looking at him from under a canvas hat. There was no way that Captain Willie Adams could know that this man was regarded as irresistibly handsome by a great many women in Washington. \'93I must have called him that by mistake,\'94 Captain Willie said. \'93You can see that the man is wounded, Doctor,\'94 the other man said, handing the glasses to his companion. \'93I can see that without glasses,\'94 the man addressed as Doctor said. \'93Who is that man?\'94 \'93I wouldn\'92t know,\'94 said Captain Willie. \'93Well, you will know,\'94 the man with the contemptuous mouth said. \'93Write down the numbers on the bow.\'94 \'93I have them. Doctor.\'94 \'93We\'92ll go over and have a look,\'94 the Doctor said. \'93Are you a doctor?\'94 Captain Willie asked. \'93Not of medicine,\'94 the grey-eyed man told him. \'93If you\'92re not a medical doctor I wouldn\'92t go over there.\'94 \'93Why not?\'94 \'93If he wanted us he would have signaled us. If fie don\'92t want us it\'92s none of our business. Down here everybody aims to mind their own business.\'94 \'93All right. Suppose you mind yours then. Take us over to that boat.\'94 Captain Willie continued on his way up the channel, the two-cylinder Palmer coughing steadily. \'93Didn\'92t you hear me?\'94 \'93Yes sir.\'94 \'93Why don\'92t you obey my order?\'94 \'93Who the hell you think you are?\'94 asked Captain Willie. \'93That\'92s not the question. Do as I tell you.\'94 \'93Who do you think you are?\'94 Captain Willie asked again. \'93All right. For your information I\'92m one of the three most important men in the United States today.\'94 \'93What the hell you doing in Key West then?\'94 The other man leaned forward. \'93He\'92s \'97\'94\'97, he said impressively. \'93I never heard of him,\'94 said Captain Willie. \'93Well, you will,\'94 said the man called Doctor. \'93And so will everyone in this stinking jerkwater little town if I have to grub it out by the roots.\'94 \'93You\'92re a nice fellow,\'94 said Captain Willie. \'93How did you get so important?\'94 \'93He\'92s the most intimate friend and closest adviser of \'97\'97\'97, said the other man. \'93Nuts,\'94 said Captain Willie. \'93If he\'92s all that what\'92s he doing in Key West?\'94 \'93He\'92s just here for a rest,\'94 the secretary explained. \'93He\'92s going to be\'97\'97\'97. \'93That\'92s enough, Harris,\'94 the man called Doctor said. \'93Now will you take us over to that boat,\'94 he said smiling. He had a smile which was reserved for such occasions. \'93No sir.\'94 \'93Listen you half-witted fisherman. I\'92ll make life so miserable for you\'97\'94 \'93Yes,\'94 said Captain Willie. \'93You don\'92t know who I am.\'94 \'93None of it don\'92t mean anything to me,\'94 said Captain Willie. \'93And you don\'92t know where you are.\'94 \'93That man is a bootlegger, isn\'92t he?\'94 \'93What do you think?\'94 \'93There\'92s probably a reward for him.\'94 \'93I doubt that.\'94 \'93He\'92s a lawbreaker.\'94 \'93He\'92s got a family and he\'92s got to eat and feed them. Who the hell do you eat off of with people working here in Key West for the Government for six dollars and a half a week?\'94 \'93He\'92s wounded. That means he\'92s been in trouble.\'94 \'93Unless he shot hisself for fun.\'94 \'93You can save that sarcasm. You\'92re going over to that boat and we\'92re going to take that man and that boat into custody.\'94 \'93Into where?\'94 \'93Into Key West.\'94 \'93Are you an officer?\'94 \'93I\'92ve told you who he is,\'94 the secretary said. \'93All right,\'94 said Captain Willie. He pushed the tiller hard over and turned the boat, coming so close to the edge of the channel that the propeller threw up a circling cloud of marl. He chugged down the channel toward where the other boat lay against the mangroves. \'93Have you a gun aboard?\'94 the man called the Doctor asked Captain Willie. \'93No sir.\'94 The two men in flannels were standing up now watching the booze boat. \'93This is better fun than fishing, eh Doctor?\'94 the secretary said. \'93Fishing is nonsense,\'94 said the Doctor. \'93If you catch a sailfish what do you do with it? You can\'92t eat it. This is really interesting. I\'92m glad to see this at first hand. Wounded as he is that man cannot escape. It\'92s too rough at sea. We know his boat.\'94 \'93You\'92re really capturing him single-handed,\'94 said the secretary admiringly. \'93And unarmed too,\'94 said the Doctor. \'93With no G-men nonsense,\'94 said the secretary. \'93Edgar Hoover exaggerates his publicity,\'94 said the Doctor. \'93I feel we\'92ve given him about enough rope.\'94 Then, \'93Pull alongside,\'94 he said to Captain Willie. Captain Willie threw out his clutch and the boat drifted. \'93Hey,\'94 Captain Willie called to the other boat. \'93Keep your heads down.\'94 \'93What\'92s that?\'94 the Doctor said angrily. \'93Shut up,\'94 said Captain Willie. \'93Hey,\'94 he called over to the other boat. \'93Listen. Get on into town and take it easy. Never mind the boat. They\'92ll take the boat. Dump your load and get into town. I got a guy here on board, some kind of a stool from Washington. Not a G-man. Just a stool. One of the heads of the alphabet. More important than the President, he says. He wants to pinch you. He thinks you\'92re a bootlegger. He\'92s got the numbers of the boat. I ain\'92t never seen you so I don\'92t know who you are. I couldn\'92t identify you\'97\'94 The boats had drifted apart. Captain Willie went on shouting, \'93I don\'92t know where this place is where I seen you. I wouldn\'92t know how to get back here.\'94 \'93O.K.,\'94 came a shout from the booze boat. \'93I\'92m taking this big alphabet man fishing until dark,\'94 Captain Willie shouted. \'93O.K.\'94 \'93He loves to fish,\'94 Captain Willie yelled, his voice almost breaking. \'93But the son of a bitch claims you can\'92t eat \'92em.\'94 \'93Thanks brother,\'94 came the voice of Harry. \'93That chap your brother?\'94 asked the Doctor, his face very red but his love for information still unappeased. \'93No sir,\'94 said Captain Willie. \'93Most everybody goes in boats calls each other brother.\'94 \'93We\'92ll go into Key West,\'94 the Doctor said; but he said it without great conviction. \'93No sir,\'94 said Captain Willie. \'93You gentlemen chartered me for a day. I\'92m going to see you get your money\'92s worth. You called me a halfwit but I\'92ll see you get a full day\'92s charter.\'94 \'93He\'92s an old man,\'94 said the Doctor to his secretary. \'93Should we rush him?\'94 \'93Don\'92t you try it,\'94 said Captain Willie. \'93I\'92d hit you right over the head with this.\'94 He showed them a length of iron pipe that he used for clubbing shark. \'93Why don\'92t you gentlemen just put your lines out and enjoy yourselves? You didn\'92t come down here to get in no trouble. You come down here for a rest. You say you can\'92t eat sailfish but you won\'92t catch no sailfish in these channels. You\'92d be lucky to catch a grouper.\'94 \'93What do you think?\'94 asked the Doctor. \'93Better leave him alone.\'94 The secretary eyed the iron pipe. \'93Besides you made another mistake,\'94 Captain Willie went on. \'93Sailfish is just as good eating as kingfish. When we used to sell them to Rios for the Havana market we got ten cents a pound same as kings.\'94 \'93Oh shut up,\'94 said the Doctor. \'93I thought you\'92d be interested in these things as a Government man. Ain\'92t you mixed up in the prices of things that we eat or something? Ain\'92t that it? Making them more costly or something. Making the grits dearer and the grunts cheapter. Fish goin\'92 down in price all the time.\'94 \'93Oh shut up,\'94 said the Doctor. On the booze boat Harry had the last sack over. \'93Get me the fish knife,\'94 he said to the nigger. \'93It\'92s gone.\'94 Harry pressed the self-starters and started the engines. He got the hatchet and with his left hand chopped the anchor rope through against the bit. It\'92ll sink and they\'92ll grapple it when they pick up the load, he thought. I\'92ll run her up into the Garrison Bight and if they\'92re going to take her they\'92ll take her. I got to get to a doctor. I don\'92t want to lose my arm and the boat both. The load is worth as much as the boat. There wasn\'92t too much of it smashed. A little smashed can smell plenty. He shoved the port clutch in and swung out away from the mangroves with the tide. The engines ran smoothly. Captain Willie\'92s boat was two miles away now headed for Boca Grande. I guess the tide\'92s high enough to go through the lakes now, Harry thought. He shoved in his starboard clutch and the engines roared as he pushed up the throttle. He could feel her bow rise and the green mangroves coasted swiftly alongside as the boat sucked the water away from their roots. I hope they don\'92t take her, he thought. I hope they can fix my arm. How was we to know they\'92d shoot at us in Mariel after we could go and come there open for six months? That\'92s Cubans for you. Somebody didn\'92t pay somebody so we got the shooting. That\'92s Cubans all right. \'93Hey Wesley,\'94 he said, looking back into the cockpit where the nigger lay with the blanket over him. \'93How you feeling, Boogie?\'94 \'93God,\'94 said Wesley. \'93I couldn\'92t feel no worse.\'94 \'93You\'92ll feel worse when the old doctor probes for it,\'94 Harry told him. \'93You ain\'92t human,\'94 the nigger said. \'93You ain\'92t got human feelings.\'94 That old Willie is a good skate, Harry was thinking. There\'92s a good skate, that old Willie. We done better to come in than to wait. It was foolish to wait. I felt so dizzy and sicklike I lost my judgment. Ahead now he could see the white of the La Concha hotel, the wireless masts, and the houses of town. He could see the car ferries lying at the Trumbo dock where he would go around to head up for the Garrison Bight. That old Willie, he thought. He was giving them hell. Wonder who those buzzards was? Damn if I don\'92t feel plenty bad right now. I feel plenty dizzy. We done right to come in. We done right not to wait. \'93Mr. Harry,\'94 said the nigger. \'93I\'92m sorry I couldn\'92t help dump that stuff.\'94 \'93Hell,\'94 said Harry. \'93Ain\'92t no nigger any good when he\'92s shot. You\'92re a all right nigger, Wesley.\'94 Above the roar of the motors and the high, slapping rush of the boat through the water he felt a strange hollow singing in his heart. He always felt this way coming home at the end of a trip. I hope they can fix that arm, he thought. I got a lot of use for that arm. The Denunciation CHICOTE\'92S IN THE OLD DAYS IN MADRID was a place sort of like The Stork, without the music and the debutantes, or the Waldorfs men\'92s bar if they let girls in. You know, they came in, but it was a man\'92s place and they didn\'92t have any status. Pedro Chicote was the proprietor and he had one of those personalities that make a place. He was a great bartender and he was always pleasant, always cheerful, and he had a lot of zest. Now zest is a rare enough thing and few people have it for long. It should not be confused with showmanship either. Chicote had it and it was not faked or put on. He was also modest, simple and friendly. He really was as nice and pleasant and still as marvelously efficient as George, the chasseur at the Ritz bar in Paris, which is about the strongest comparison you can make to anyone who has been around, and he ran a fine bar. In those days the snobs among the rich young men of Madrid hung out at something called the Nuevo Club and the good guys went to Chicote\'92s. A lot of people went there that I did not like, the same as at The Stork, say, but I was never in Chicote\'92s that it wasn\'92t pleasant. One reason was that you did not talk politics there. There were caf\'e9s where you went for politics and nothing else but you didn\'92t talk politics at Chicote\'92s. You talked plenty of the other five subjects though and in the evening the best looking girls in the town showed up there and it was the place to start an evening from, all right, and we had all started some fine ones from there. Then it was the place where you dropped in to find out who was in town, or where they had gone to if they were out of town. And if it was summer, and there was no one in town, you could always sit and enjoy a drink because the waiters were all pleasant. It was a club only you didn\'92t have to pay any dues and you could pick a girl up there. It was the best bar in Spain, certainly, and I think one of the best bars in the world, and all of us that used to hang out there had a great affection for it. Another thing was that the drinks were wonderful. If you ordered a martini it was made with the best gin that money could buy, and Chicote had a barrel whisky that came from Scotland that was so much better than the advertised brands that it was pitiful to compare it with ordinary Scotch. Well, when the revolt started, Chicote was up at San Sebastian running the summer place he had there. He is still running it and they say it is the best bar in Franco\'92s Spain. The waiters took over the Madrid place and they are still running it, but the good liquor is all gone now. Most of Chicote\'92s old customers are on Franco\'92s side; but some of them are on the Government side. Because it was a very cheerful place, and because really cheerful people are usually the bravest, and the bravest get killed quickest, a big part of Chicote\'92s old customers are now dead. The barrel whisky had all been gone for many months now and we finished the last of the yellow gin in May of 1938. There\'92s not much there to go for now so I suppose Luis Delgado, if he had come to Madrid a little later, might have stayed away from there and not gotten into that trouble. But when he came to Madrid in the month of November of 1937 they still had the yellow gin and they still had Indian quinine water. They do not seem worth risking your life for, so maybe he just wanted to have a drink in the old place. Knowing him, and knowing the place in the old days, it would be perfectly understandable. They had butchered a cow at the Embassy that day and the porter had called up at the Hotel Florida to tell us that they had saved us ten pounds of fresh meat. I walked over to get it through the early dusk of a Madrid winter. Two assault guards with rifles sat on chairs outside the Embassy gate and the meat was waiting at the porter\'92s lodge. The porter said it was a very good cut but that the cow was lean. I offered him some roasted sunflower seeds and some acorns from the pocket of my mackinaw jacket and we joked a little standing outside the lodge on the gravel of the Embassy driveway. I walked home across the town with the meat heavy under my arm. They were shelling up the Gran Via and I went into Chicote\'92s to wait it out. It was noisy and crowded and I sat at a little table in one corner against the sandbagged window with the meat on the bench beside me and drank a gin and tonic water. It was that week that we discovered they still had tonic water. No one had ordered any since the war started and it was still the same price as before the revolt. The evening papers were not yet out so I bought three party tracts from an old woman. They were ten centavos apiece and I told her to keep the change from a peseta. She said God would bless me. I doubted this but read the three leaflets and drank the gin and tonic. A waiter I had known in the old days came over to the table and said something to me. \'93No,\'94 I said. \'93I don\'92t believe it.\'94 \'93Yes,\'94 he insisted, slanting his tray and his head in the same direction. \'93Don\'92t look now. There he is.\'94 \'93It\'92s not my business,\'94 I told him. \'93Nor mine either.\'94 He went away and I bought the evening papers which had just come in from another old woman and read them. There was no doubt about the man the waiter had pointed out. We both knew him very well. All I could think was: the fool. The utter bloody fool. Just then a Greek comrade came over and sat down at the table. He was a company commander in the Fifteenth Brigade who had been buried by an airplane bomb which had killed four other men and he had been sent in to be under observation for a while and then sent to a rest home or something of the sort. \'93How are you, John?\'94 I asked him. \'93Try one of these.\'94 \'93What you call that drink, Mr. Emmunds?\'94 \'93Gin and tonic.\'94 \'93What is that kind of tonic?\'94 \'93Quinine. Try one.\'94 \'93Listen, I don\'92t drink very much but is a quinine very good for fever. I try little one.\'94 \'93What did the doctor say about you, John?\'94 \'93Is a no necessity see doctor. I am all right. Only I have like buzzing noises all the time in the head.\'94 \'93You have to go to see him, John.\'94 \'93I go all right. But he not understand. He says I have no papers to admit.\'94 \'93I\'92ll call up about it,\'94 I said. \'93I know the people there. Is the doctor a German?\'94 \'93That\'92s right,\'94 said John. \'93Is a German. No talk English very good.\'94 Just then the waiter came over. He was an old man with a bald head and very old-fashioned manners which the war had not changed. He was very worried. \'93I have a son at the front,\'94 he said. \'93I have another son killed. Now about this.\'94 \'93It is thy problem.\'94 \'93And you? Already I have told you.\'94 \'93I came in here to have a drink before eating.\'94 \'93And I work here. But tell me.\'94 \'93It is thy problem,\'94 I said. \'93I am not a politician.\'94 \'93Do you understand Spanish, John?\'94 I asked the Greek comrade. \'93No, I understand few words but I speak Greek, English, Arabic. One time I speak good Arabic. Listen, you know how I get buried?\'94 \'93No. I knew you were buried. That\'92s all.\'94 He had a dark good-looking face and very dark hands that he moved about when he talked. He came from one of the islands and he spoke with great intensity. \'93Well, I tell you now. You see I have very much experience in war. Before I am captain in Greek army too. I am good soldier. So when I see plane come over there when we are in trenches there at Fuentes del Ebro I look at him close. I look at plane come over, bank, turn like this\'94 (he turned and banked with his hands), \'93look down on us and I say, \'91Ah ha. Is for the General Staff. Is made the observation. Pretty soon come others.\'92 \'93So just like I say come others. So I am stand there and watch. I watch close. I look up and I point out to company what happens. Is come three and three. One first and two behind. Is pass one group of three and I say to company, \'91See? Now is pass one formation.\'92 \'93Is pass the other three and I say to company, \'91Now is hokay. Now is all right. Now is nothing more to worry.\'92 That the last thing I remember for two weeks.\'94 \'93When did it happen?\'94 \'93About one month ago. You see is my helmet forced down over my face when am buried by bomb so I have the air in that helmet to breathe until they dig me out but I know nothing about that. But in that air I breathe is the smoke from the explosion and that make me sick for long time. Now am I hokay, only with the ringing in the head. What you call this drink?\'94 \'93Gin and tonic. Schweppes Indian tonic water. This was a very fancy caf\'e9 before the war and this used to cost five pesetas when there were only seven pesetas to the dollar. We just found out they still have the tonic water and they\'92re charging the same price for it. There\'92s only a case left.\'94 \'93Is a good drink all right. Tell me, how was this city before the war?\'94 \'93Fine. Like now only lots to eat.\'94 The waiter came over and leaned toward the table. \'93And if I don\'92t?\'94 he said. \'93It is my responsibility.\'94 \'93If you wish to, go to the telephone and call this number. Write it down.\'94 He wrote it down. \'93Ask for Pep\'e9,\'94 I said. \'93I have nothing against him,\'94 the waiter said. \'93But it is the Causa. Certainly such a man is dangerous to our cause.\'94 \'93Don\'92t the other waiters recognize him?\'94 \'93I think so. But no one has said anything. He is an old client.\'94 \'93I am an old client, too.\'94 \'93Perhaps then he is on our side now, too.\'94 \'93No,\'94 I said. \'93I know he is not.\'94 \'93I have never denounced anyone.\'94 \'93It is your problem. Maybe one of the other waiters will denounce him.\'94 \'93No. Only the old waiters know him and the old waiters do not denounce.\'94 \'93Bring another of the yellow gins and some bitters,\'94 I said. \'93There is tonic water still in the bottle.\'94 \'93What\'92s he talk about?\'94 asked John. \'93I only understand little bit.\'94 \'93There is a man here that we both knew in the old days. He used to be a marvelous pigeon shot and I used to see him at shoots. He is a fascist and for him to come here now, no matter what his reasons, is very foolish. But he was always very brave and very foolish.\'94 \'93Show him to me.\'94 \'93There at that table with the flyers.\'94 \'93Which one?\'94 \'93With the very brown face; the cap over one eye. Who is laughing now.\'94 \'93He is fascist?\'94 \'93Yes.\'94 \'93That\'92s a closest I see fascist since Fuentes del Ebro. Is a many fascist here?\'94 \'93Quite a few from time to time.\'94 \'93Is drink the same drink as you,\'94 said John. \'93We drink that other people think we fascists, eh? Listen you ever been South America, West Coast, Magallanes?\'94 \'93No.\'94 \'93Is all right. Only too many oc-toe-pus.\'94 \'93Too many what?\'94 \'93Oc-toe-pus.\'94 He pronounced it with the accent on the toe as oc-toepus. \'93You know with the eight arms.\'94 \'93Oh,\'94 I said. \'93Octopus.\'94 \'93Oc-toe-pus,\'94 said John. \'93You see I am diver too. Is a good place to work all right make plenty money only too many oc-toe-pus.\'94 \'93Did they bother you?\'94 \'93I don\'92t know about that. First time I go down in Magallanes harbor I see oc-toe-pus. He is stand on his feet like this.\'94 John pointed his fingers on the table and brought his hands up, at the same time bringing up his shoulders and raising his eyebrows. \'93He is stand up taller than I am and he is look me right in the eye. I jerk cord for them to bring me up.\'94 \'93How big was he, John?\'94 \'93I cannot say absolutely because the glass in the helmet make distort a little. But the head was big around more than four feet anyway. And he was stand on his feet like on tip-toes and look at me like this.\'94 (He peered in my face.) \'93So when I get up out of water they take off the helmet and so I say I don\'92t go down there any more. Then the man of the job says, \'91What a matter with you, John? The octoe-pus is more afraid of you than you afraid of oc-toe-pus.\'92 So I say to him \'91Impossible!\'92 What you say we drink some more this fascist drink?\'94 \'93All right,\'94 I said. I was watching the man at the table. His name was Luis Delgado and the last time I had seen him had been in 1933 shooting pigeons at Saint Sebastian and I remembered standing with him up on top of the stand watching the final of the big shoot. We had a bet, more than I could afford to bet, and I believed a good deal more than he could afford to lose that year, and when he paid coming down the stairs, I remembered how pleasant he was and how he made it seem a great privilege to pay. Then I remembered our standing at the bar having a martini, and I had that wonderful feeling of relief that comes when you have bet yourself out of a bad hole and I was wondering how badly the bet had hit him. I had shot rottenly all week and he had shot beautifully but drawn almost impossible birds and he had bet on himself steadily. \'93Should we match a duro?\'94 he asked. \'93You really want to?\'94 \'93Yes, if you like.\'94 \'93For how much?\'94 He took out a notecase and looked in it and laughed. \'93I\'92d say for anything you like,\'94 he said. \'93But suppose we say for eight thousand pesetas. That\'92s what seems to be there.\'94 That was close to a thousand dollars then. \'93Good,\'94 I said, all the fine inner quiet gone now and the hollow that gambling makes come back again. \'93Who\'92s matching who?\'94 \'93I\'92ll match you.\'94 We shook the heavy five-peseta pieces in our cupped hands; then each man laid his coin on the back of his left hand, each coin covered with the right hand. \'93What\'92s yours?\'94 he asked. I uncovered the big silver piece with the profile of Alfonso XIII as a baby showing. \'93Heads,\'94 I said. \'93Take these damned things and be a good man and buy me a drink.\'94 He emptied out the notecase. \'93You wouldn\'92t like to buy a good Purdey gun would you?\'94 \'93No,\'94 I said. \'93But look, Luis, if you need some money\'97\'94 I was holding the stiffly folded, shiny-heavy-paper, green thousandpeseta notes toward him. \'93Don\'92t be silly, Enrique,\'94 he said. \'93We\'92ve been gambling, haven\'92t we?\'94 \'93Yes. But we know each other quite well.\'94 \'93Not that well.\'94 \'93Right,\'94 I said. \'93You\'92re the judge of that. Then what will you drink?\'94 \'93What about a gin and tonic? That\'92s a marvelous drink you know.\'94 So we had a gin and tonic and I felt very badly to have broken him and I felt awfully good to have won the money, and a gin and tonic never tasted better to me in all my life. There is no use to lie about these things or pretend you do not enjoy winning; but this boy Luis Delgado was a very pretty gambler. \'93I don\'92t think if people gambled for what they could afford it would be very interesting. Do you, Enrique?\'94 \'93I don\'92t know. I\'92ve never been able to afford it.\'94 \'93Don\'92t be silly. You have lots of money.\'94 \'93No I haven\'92t,\'94 I said. \'93Really.\'94 \'93Oh, everyone has money,\'94 he said. \'93It\'92s just a question of selling something or other to get hold of it.\'94 \'93I don\'92t have much. Really.\'94 \'93Oh, don\'92t be silly. I\'92ve never known an American who wasn\'92t rich.\'94 I guess that was the truth all right. He wouldn\'92t have met them at the Ritz bar or at Chicote\'92s either in those days. And now he was back in Chicote\'92s and all the Americans he would meet there now were the kind he would never have met; except me, and I was a mistake. But I would have given plenty not to have seen him in there. Still, if he wanted to do an absolutely damn fool thing like that it was his own business. But as I looked at the table and remembered the old days I felt badly about him and I felt very badly too that I had given the waiter the number of the counterespionage bureau in Seguridad headquarters. He could have had Seguridad by simply asking on the telephone. But I had given him the shortest cut to having Delgado arrested in one of those excesses of impartiality, righteousness and Pontius Pilatry, and the always-dirty desire to see how people act under an emotional conflict, that makes writers such attractive friends. The waiter came over. \'93What do you think?\'94 he asked. \'93I would never denounce him myself,\'94 I said, now trying to undo for myself what I had done with the number. \'93But I am a foreigner and it is your war and your problem.\'94 \'93But you are with us.\'94 \'93Absolutely and always. But it does not include denouncing old friends.\'94 \'93But for me?\'94 \'93For you it is different.\'94 I knew this was true and there was nothing else to say, only I wished I had never heard of any of it. My curiosity as to how people would act in this case had been long ago, and shamefully, satisfied. I turned to John and did not look at the table where Luis Delgado was sitting. I knew he had been flying with the fascists for over a year, and here he was, in a loyalist uniform, talking to three young loyalist flyers of the last crop that had been trained in France. None of those new kids would know him and I wondered whether he had come to try to steal a plane or for what. Whatever he was there for, he was a fool to come to Chicote\'92s now. \'93How do you feel, John?\'94 I asked. \'93Feel good,\'94 said John. \'93Is a good drink hokay. Makes me feel little bit drunk maybe. Is a good for the buzzing in the head.\'94 The waiter came over. He was very excited. \'93I have denounced him,\'94 he said. \'93Well then,\'94 I said, \'93now you haven\'92t any problem.\'94 \'93No,\'94 he said proudly. \'93I have denounced him. They are on their way now to get him.\'94 \'93Let\'92s go,\'94 I said to John. \'93There is going to be some trouble here.\'94 \'93Is best go then,\'94 said John. \'93Is a plenty trouble always come, even if you do best to avoid. How much we owe?\'94 \'93You aren\'92t going to stay?\'94 the waiter asked. \'93No.\'94 \'93But you gave me the telephone number.\'94 \'93I know it. You get to know too many telephone numbers if you stay around in this town.\'94 \'93But it was my duty.\'94 \'93Yes. Why not? Duty is a very strong thing.\'94 \'93But now?\'94 \'93Well, you felt good about it just now, didn\'92t you? Maybe you will feel good about it again. Maybe you will get to like it.\'94 \'93You have forgotten the package,\'94 the waiter said. He handed me the meat which was wrapped in two envelopes which had brought copies of the Spur to the piles of magazines which accumulated in one of the office rooms of the Embassy. \'93I understand,\'94 I said to the waiter. \'93Truly.\'94 \'93He was an old client and a good client. Also I have never denounced anyone before. I did not denounce for pleasure.\'94 \'93Also I should not speak cynically or brutally. Tell him that I denounced him. He hates me anyway by now for differences in politics. He\'92d feel badly if he knew it was you.\'94 \'93No. Each man must take his responsibility. But you understand?\'94 \'93Yes,\'94 I said. Then lied. \'93I understand and I approve.\'94 You have to lie very often in a war and when you have to lie you should do it quickly and as well as you can. We shook hands and I went out the door with John. I looked back at the table where Luis Delgado sat as I went out. He had another gin and tonic in front of him and everyone at the table was laughing at something he had said. He had a very gay, brown face, and shooter\'92s eyes, and I wondered what he was passing himself off as. He was a fool to go to Chicote\'92s. But that was exactly the sort of thing that he would do in order to be able to boast of it when he was back with his own people. As we went out of the door and turned to walk up the street, a big Seguridad car drew up in front of Chicote\'92s and eight men got out of it. Six with submachine guns took up positions outside the door. Two in plain clothes went inside. A man asked us for our papers and when I said, \'93Foreigners,\'94 he said to go along; that it was all right. In the dark going up the Gran Via there was much new broken glass on the sidewalk and much rubble under foot from the shelling. The air was still smoky and all up the street it smelled of high explosive and blasted granite. \'93Where you go eat?\'94 asked John. \'93I have some meat for all of us, and we can cook it in the room.\'94 \'93I cook it,\'94 said John. \'93I cook good. I remember one time when I cook on ship\'97\'94 \'93It will be pretty tough,\'94 I said. \'93It\'92s just been freshly butchered.\'94 \'93Oh no,\'94 said John. \'93Is a no such thing as a touch meat in a war.\'94 People were hurrying by in the dark on their way home from the cinemas where they had stayed until the shelling was over. \'93What\'92s a matter that fascist he come to that caf\'e9 where they know him?\'94 \'93He was crazy to do it.\'94 \'93Is a trouble with a war,\'94 John said. \'93Is a too many people crazy.\'94 \'93John,\'94 I said, \'93I think you\'92ve got something there.\'94 Back at the hotel we went in the door past the sandbags piled to protect the porter\'92s desk and I asked for the key, but the porter said there were two comrades upstairs in the room taking a bath. He had given them the keys. \'93Go on up, John,\'94 I said. \'93I want to telephone.\'94 I went over to the booth and called the same number I had given the waiter. \'93Hello? Pep\'e9?\'94 A thin-lipped voice came over the phone. \'93\'bfQu\'e9 tal Enrique?\'94 \'93Listen, Pep\'e9, did you pick up a certain Luis Delgado at Chicote\'92s?\'94 \'93S\'ed, hombre, s\'ed. Sin novedad. Without trouble.\'94 \'93He doesn\'92t know anything about the waiter?\'94 \'93No, hombre, no.\'94 \'93Then don\'92t tell him. Tell him I denounced him then, will you? Nothing about the waiter.\'94 \'93Why when it will make no difference? He is a spy. He will be shot. There is no choice in the matter.\'94 \'93I know,\'94 I said. \'93But it makes a difference.\'94 \'93As you want, hombre. As you want. When shall I see thee?\'94 \'93Lunch tomorrow. We have some meat.\'94 \'93And whisky before. Good, hombre, good.\'94 \'93Salud, Pep\'e9, and thank you.\'94 \'93Salud, Enrique. It is nothing. Salud.\'94 It was a strange and very deadly voice and I never got used to hearing it, but as I walked up the stairs now, I felt much better. All we old clients of Chicote\'92s had a sort of feeling about the place. I knew that was why Luis Delgado had been such a fool as to go back there. He could have done his business some place else. But if he was in Madrid he had to go there. He had been a good client as the waiter had said and we had been friends. Certainly any small acts of kindness you can do in life are worth doing. So I was glad I had called my friend Pep\'e9 at Seguridad headquarters because Luis Delgado was an old client of Chicote\'92s and I did not wish him to be disillusioned or bitter about the waiters there before he died. The Butterfly and the Tank ON THIS EVENING I WAS WALKING HOME from the censorship office to the Florida Hotel and it was raining. So about halfway home I got sick of the rain and stopped into Chicote\'92s for a quick one. It was the second winter of shelling in the siege of Madrid and everything was short including tobacco and people\'92s tempers and you were a little hungry all the time and would become suddenly and unreasonably irritated at things you could do nothing about such as the weather. I should have gone on home. It was only five blocks more, but when I saw Chicote\'92s doorway I thought I would get a quick one and then do those six blocks up the Gran Via through the mud and rubble of the streets broken by the bombardment. The place was crowded. You couldn\'92t get near the bar and all the tables were full. It was full of smoke, singing, men in uniform, and the smell of wet leather coats, and they were handing drinks over a crowd that was three deep at the bar. A waiter I knew found a chair from another table and I sat down with a thin, white-faced, Adam\'92s-appled German I knew who was working at the censorship and two other people I did not know. The table was in the middle of the room a little on your right as you go in. You couldn\'92t hear yourself talk for the singing and I ordered a gin and Angostura and put it down against the rain. The place was really packed and everybody was very jolly; maybe getting just a little bit too jolly from the newly made Catalan liquor most of them were drinking. A couple of people I did not know slapped me on the back and when the girl at our table said something to me, I couldn\'92t hear it and said, \'93Sure.\'94 She was pretty terrible looking now I had stopped looking around and was looking at our table; really pretty terrible. But it turned out, when the waiter came, that what she had asked me was to have a drink. The fellow with her was not very forceful looking but she was forceful enough for both of them. She had one of those strong, semi-classical faces and was built like a lion tamer; and the boy with her looked as though he ought to be wearing an old school tie. He wasn\'92t though. He was wearing a leather coat just like all the rest of us. Only it wasn\'92t wet because they had been there since before the rain started. She had on a leather coat too and it was becoming to the sort of face she had. By this time I was wishing I had not stopped into Chicote\'92s but had gone straight on home where you could change your clothes and be dry and have a drink in comfort on the bed with your feet up, and I was tired of looking at both of these young people. Life is very short and ugly women are very long and sitting there at the table I decided that even though I was a writer and supposed to have an insatiable curiosity about all sorts of people, I did not really care to know whether these two were married, or what they saw in each other, or what their politics were, or whether he had a little money, or she had a little money, or anything about them. I decided they must be in the radio. Any time you saw really strange looking civilians in Madrid they were always in the radio. So to say something I raised my voice above the noise and asked, \'93You in the radio?\'94 \'93We are,\'94 the girl said. So that was that. They were in the radio. \'93How are you comrade?\'94 I said to the German. \'93Fine. And you?\'94 \'93Wet,\'94 I said, and he laughed with his head on one side. \'93You haven\'92t got a cigarette?\'94 he asked. I handed him my next to the last pack of cigarettes and he took two. The forceful girl took two and the young man with the old school tie face took one. \'93Take another,\'94 I shouted. \'93No thanks,\'94 he answered and the German took it instead. \'93Do you mind?\'94 he smiled. \'93Of course not,\'94 I said. I really minded and he knew it. But he wanted the cigarettes so badly that it did not matter. The singing had died down momentarily, or there was a break in it as there is sometimes in a storm, and we could all hear what we said. \'93You been here long?\'94 the forceful girl asked me. She pronounced it bean as in bean soup. \'93Off and on,\'94 I said. \'93We must have a serious talk,\'94 the German said. \'93I want to have a talk with you. When can we have it?\'94 \'93I\'92ll call you up,\'94 I said. This German was a very strange German indeed and none of the good Germans liked him. He lived under the delusion that he could play the piano, but if you kept him away from pianos he was all right unless he was exposed to liquor, or the opportunity to gossip, and nobody had even been able to keep him away from those two things yet. Gossip was the best thing he did and he always knew something new and highly discreditable about anyone you could mention in Madrid, Valencia, Barcelona, and other political centers. Just then the singing really started in again, and you cannot gossip very well shouting, so it looked like a dull afternoon at Chicote\'92s and I decided to leave as soon as I should have bought a round myself. Just then it started. A civilian in a brown suit, a white shirt, black tie, his hair brushed straight back from a rather high forehead, who had been clowning around from table to table, squirted one of the waiters with a flit gun. Everybody laughed except the waiter who was carrying a tray full of drinks at the time. He was indignant. \'93No hay derecho,\'94 the waiter said. This means, \'93You have no right to do that,\'94 and is the simplest and the strongest protest in Spain. The flit gun man, delighted with his success, and not seeming to give any importance to the fact that it was well into the second year of the war, that he was in a city under siege where everyone was under a strain, and that he was one of only four men in civilian clothes in the place, now squirted another waiter. I looked around for a place to duck to. This waiter, also, was indignant and the flit gun man squirted him twice more, lightheartedly. Some people still thought it was funny, including the forceful girl. But the waiter stood, shaking his head. His lips were trembling. He was an old man and he had worked in Chicote\'92s for ten years that I knew of. \'93No hay derecho, \'94 he said with dignity. People had laughed, however, and the flit gun man, not noticing how the singing had fallen off, squirted his flit gun at the back of a waiter\'92s neck. The waiter turned, holding his tray. \'93No hay derecho,\'94 he said. This time it was no protest. It was an indictment and I saw three men in uniform start from a table for the flit gun man and the next thing all four of them were going out the revolving door in a rush and you heard a smack when someone hit the flit gun man on the mouth. Somebody else picked up the flit gun and threw it out the door after him. The three men came back in looking serious, tough and very righteous. Then the door revolved and in came the flit gun man. His hair was down in his eyes, there was blood on his face, his necktie was pulled to one side and his shirt was torn open. He had the flit gun again and as he pushed, wild- eyed and white-faced, into the room he made one general, unaimed, challenging squirt with it, holding it toward the whole company. I saw one of the three men start for him and I saw this man\'92s face. There were more men with him now and they forced the flit gun man back between two tables on the left of the room as you go in, the flit gun man struggling wildly now, and when the shot went off I grabbed the forceful girl by the arm and dove for the kitchen door. The kitchen door was shut and when I put my shoulder against it it did not give. \'93Get down here behind the angle of the bar,\'94 I said. She knelt there. \'93Flat,\'94 I said and pushed her down. She was furious. Every man in the room except the German, who lay behind a table, and the public-school-looking boy who stood in a corner drawn up against the wall, had a gun up. On a bench along the wall three over-blonde girls, their hair dark at the roots, were standing on tiptoe to see and screaming steadily. \'93I\'92m not afraid,\'94 the forceful one said. \'93This is ridiculous.\'94 \'93You don\'92t want to get shot in a caf\'e9 brawl,\'94 I said. \'93If that flit king has any friends here this can be very bad.\'94 But he had no friends, evidently, because people began putting their pistols away and somebody lifted down the blonde screamers and everyone who had started over there when the shot came drew back away from the flit man who lay, quietly, on his back on the floor. \'93No one is to leave until the police come,\'94 someone shouted from the door. Two policemen with rifles, who had come in off the street patrol, were standing by the door and at this announcement I saw six men form up just like the line-up of a football team coming out of a huddle and head out through the door. Three of them were the men who had first thrown the flit king out. One of them was the man who shot him. They went right through the policemen with the rifles like good interference taking out an end and a tackle. And as they went out one of the policemen got his rifle across the door and shouted, \'93No one can leave. Absolutely no one.\'94 \'93Why did those men go? Why hold us if anyone\'92s gone?\'94 \'93They were mechanics who had to return to their air field,\'94 someone said. \'93But if anyone\'92s gone it\'92s silly to old the others.\'94 \'93Everyone must wait for the Seguridad. Things must be done legally and in order.\'94 \'93But don\'92t you see that if any person has gone it is silly to hold the others?\'94 \'93No one can leave. Everyone must wait.\'94 \'93It\'92s comic,\'94 I said to the forceful girl. \'93No it\'92s not. It\'92s simply horrible.\'94 We were standing up now and she was staring indignantly at where the flit king was lying. His arms were spread wide and he had one leg drawn up. \'93I\'92m going over to help that poor wounded man. Why has no one helped him or done anything for him?\'94 \'93I\'92d leave him alone,\'94 I said. \'93You want to keep out of this.\'94 \'93But it\'92s simply inhuman. I\'92ve nurse\'92s training and I\'92m going to give him first aid.\'94 \'93I wouldn\'92t,\'94 I said. \'93Don\'92t go near him.\'94 \'93Why not?\'94 She was very upset and almost hysterical. \'93Because he\'92s dead,\'94 I said. When the police came they held everybody there for three hours. They commenced by smelling of all the pistols. In this manner they would detect one which had been fired recently. After about forty pistols they seemed to get bored with this and anyway all you could smell was wet leather coats. Then they sat at a table placed directly behind the late flit king, who lay on the floor looking like a grey wax caricature of himself, with grey wax hands and a grey wax face, and examined people\'92s papers. With his shirt ripped open you could see the flit king had no undershirt and the soles of his shoes were worn through. He looked very small and pitiful lying there on the floor. You had to step over him to get to the table where two plain clothes policemen sat and examined everyone\'92s identification papers. The husband lost and found his papers several times with nervousness. He had a safe conduct pass somewhere but he had mislaid it in a pocket and he kept on searching and perspiring until he found it. Then he would put it in a different pocket and have to go searching again. He perspired heavily while doing this and it made his hair very curly and his face red. He now looked as though he should have not only an old school tie but one of those little caps boys in the lower forms wear. You have heard how events age people. Well, this shooting had made him look about ten years younger. While we were waiting around I told the forceful girl I thought the whole thing was a pretty good story and that I would write it sometime. The way the six had lined up in single file and rushed that door was very impressive. She was shocked and said that I could not write it because it would be prejudicial to the cause of the Spanish Republic. I said that I had been in Spain for a long time and that they used to have a phenomenal number of shootings in the old days around Valencia under the monarchy, and that for hundreds of years before the Republic people had been cutting each other with large knives called navajas in Andalucia, and that if I saw a comic shooting in Chicote\'92s during the war I could write about it just as though it had been in New York, Chicago, Key West or Marseilles. It did not have anything to do with politics. She said I shouldn\'92t. Probably a lot of other people will say I shouldn\'92t too. The German seemed to think it was a pretty good story, however, and I gave him the last of the Camels. Well, anyway, finally, after about three hours the police said we could go. They were sort of worried about me at the Florida because in those days, with the shelling, if you started for home on foot and didn\'92t get there after the bars were closed at seven-thirty, people worried. I was glad to get home and I told the story while we were cooking supper on an electric stove and it had quite a success. Well, it stopped raining during the night, and the next morning it was a fine, bright, cold early winter day and at twelve forty-five I pushed open the revolving doors at Chicote\'92s to try a little gin and tonic before lunch. There were very few people there at that hour and two waiters and the manager came over to the table. They were all smiling. \'93Did they catch the murderer?\'94 I asked. \'93Don\'92t make jokes so early in the day,\'94 the manager said. \'93Did you see him shot?\'94 \'93Yes,\'94 I told him. \'93Me too,\'94 he said. \'93I was just here when it happened.\'94 He pointed to a comer table. \'93He placed the pistol right against the man\'92s chest when he fired.\'94 \'93How late did they hold people?\'94 \'93Oh, until past two this morning.\'94 \'93They only came for the fiambre,\'94 using the Spanish slang word for corpse, the same used on menus for cold meat, \'93at eleven o\'92clock this morning.\'94 \'93But you don\'92t know about it yet,\'94 the manager said. \'93No. He doesn\'92t know,\'94 a waiter said. \'93It is a very rare thing,\'94 another waiter said. \'93Muy raro.\'94 \'93And sad too,\'94 the manager said. He shook his head. \'93Yes. Sad and curious,\'94 the waiter said. \'93Very sad.\'94 \'93Tell me.\'94 \'93It is a very rare thing,\'94 the manager said. \'93Tell me. Come on, tell me.\'94 The manager leaned over the table in great confidence. \'93In the flit gun, you know,\'94 he said. \'93He had eau de cologne. Poor fellow.\'94 \'93It was not a joke in such bad taste, you see?\'94 the waiter said. \'93It was really just gaiety. No one should have taken offense,\'94 the manager said. \'93Poor fellow.\'94 \'93I see,\'94 I said. \'93He just wanted everyone to have a good time.\'94 \'93Yes,\'94 said the manager. \'93It was really just an unfortunate misunderstanding.\'94 \'93And what about the flit gun?\'94 \'93The police took it. They have sent it around to his family.\'94 \'93I imagine they will be glad to have it,\'94 I said. \'93Yes,\'94 said the manager. \'93Certainly. A flit gun is always useful.\'94 \'93Who was he?\'94 \'93A cabinet maker.\'94 \'93Married?\'94 \'93Yes, the wife was here with the police this morning.\'94 \'93What did she say?\'94 \'93She dropped down by him and said, \'91Pedro, what have they done to thee, Pedro? Who has done this to thee? Oh, Pedro.\'92 \'94 \'93Then the police had to take her away because she could not control herself,\'94 the waiter said. \'93It seems he was feeble of the chest,\'94 the manager said. \'93He fought in the first days of the movement. They said he fought in the Sierra but he was too weak in the chest to continue.\'94 \'93And yesterday afternoon he just went out on the town to cheer things up,\'94 I suggested. \'93No,\'94 said the manager. \'93You see it is very rare. Everything is muy raro. This I learn from the police who are very efficient if given time. They have interrogated comrades from the shop where he worked. This they located from the card of his syndicate which was in his pocket. Yesterday he bought the flit gun and agua de colonia to use for a joke at a wedding. He had announced this intention. He bought them across the street. There was a label on the cologne bottle with the address. The bottle was in the washroom. It was there he filled the flit gun. After buying them he must have come in here when the rain started.\'94 \'93I remember when he came in,\'94 a waiter said. \'93In the gaiety, with the singing, he became gay too.\'94 \'93He was gay all right,\'94 I said. \'93He was practically floating around.\'94 The manager kept on with the relentless Spanish logic. \'93That is the gaiety of drinking with a weakness of the chest,\'94 he said. \'93I don\'92t like this story very well,\'94 I said. \'93Listen,\'94 said the manager. \'93How rare it is. His gaiety comes in contact with the seriousness of the war like a butterfly\'97\'94 \'93Oh, very like a butterfly,\'94 I said. \'93Too much like a butterfly.\'94 \'93I am not joking,\'94 said the manager. \'93You see it? Like a butterfly and a tank.\'94 This pleased him enormously. He was getting into the real Spanish metaphysics. \'93Have a drink on the house,\'94 he said. \'93You must write a story about this.\'94 I remembered the flit gun man with his grey wax hands and his grey wax face, his arms spread wide and his legs drawn up and he did look a little like a butterfly; not too much, you know. But he did not look very human either. He reminded me more of a dead sparrow. \'93I\'92ll take gin and Schweppes quinine tonic water,\'94 I said. \'93You must write a story about it,\'94 the manager said. \'93Here. Here\'92s luck.\'94 \'93Luck,\'94 I said. \'93Look, an English girl last night told me I shouldn\'92t write about it. That it would be very bad for the cause.\'94 \'93What nonsense,\'94 the manager said. \'93It is very interesting and important, the misunderstood gaiety coming in contact with the deadly seriousness that is here always. To me it is the rarest and most interesting thing which I have seen for some time. You must write it.\'94 \'93All right,\'94 I said. \'93Sure. Has he any children?\'94 \'93No,\'94 he said. \'93I asked the police. But you must write it and you must call it \'91The Butterfly and the Tank.\'92 \'94 \'93All right,\'94 I said. \'93Sure. But I don\'92t like the title much.\'94 \'93The title is very elegant,\'94 the manager said. \'93It is pure literature.\'94 \'93All right,\'94 I said. \'93Sure. That\'92s what we\'92ll call it. \'91The Butterfly and the Tank.\'92 \'94 And I sat there on that bright cheerful morning, the place smelling clean and newly aired and swept, with the manager who was an old friend and who was now very pleased with the literature we were making together and I took a sip of the gin and tonic water and looked out the sandbagged window and thought of the wife kneeling there and saying, \'93Pedro. Pedro, who has done this to thee, Pedro?\'94 And I thought that the police would never be able to tell her that even if they had the name of the man who pulled the trigger. Night Before Battle AT THIS TIME WE WERE WORKING IN A shell-smashed house that overlooked the Casa del Campo in Madrid. Below us a battle was being fought. You could see it spread out below you and over the hills, could smell it, could taste the dust of it, and the noise of it was one great slithering sheet of rifle and automatic rifle fire rising and dropping, and in it came the crack of the guns and the bubbly rumbling of the outgoing shells fired from the batteries behind us, the thud of their bursts, and then the rolling yellow clouds of dust. But it was just too far to film well. We had tried working closer but they kept sniping at the camera and you could not work. The big camera was the most expensive thing we had and if it was smashed we were through. We were making the film on almost nothing and all the money was in the cans of film and the cameras. We could not afford to waste film and you had to be awfully careful of the cameras. The day before we had been sniped out of a good place to film from and I had to crawl back holding the small camera to my belly, trying to keep my head lower than my shoulders, hitching along on my elbows, the bullets whocking into the brick wall over my back and twice spurting dirt over me. Our heaviest attacks were made in the afternoon, God knows why, as the fascists then had the sun at their backs, and it shone on the camera lenses and made them blink like a helio and the Moors would open up on the flash. They knew all about helios and officers\'92 glasses from the Riff and if you wanted to be properly sniped, all you had to do was use a pair of glasses without shading them adequately. They could shoot too, and they had kept my mouth dry all day. In the afternoon we moved up into the house. It was a fine place to work and we made a son of a blind for the camera on a balcony with the broken latticed curtains; but, as I said, it was too far. It was not too far to get the pine studded hillside, the lake and the outline of the stone farm buildings that disappeared in the sudden smashes of stone dust from the hits by high explosive shells, nor was it too far to get the clouds of smoke and dirt that thundered up on the hill crest as the bombers droned over. But at eight hundred to a thousand yards the tanks looked like small mud-colored beetles bustling in the trees and spitting tiny flashes and the men behind them were toy men who lay flat, then crouched and ran, and then dropped to run again, or to stay where they lay, spotting the hillside as the tanks moved on. Still we hoped to get the shape of the battle. We had many close shots and would get others with luck and if we could get the sudden fountainings of earth, the puffs of shrapnel, the rolling louds of smoke and dust lit by the yellow flash and white blossoming of grenades that is the very shape of battle we would have something that we needed. So when the light failed we carried the big camera down the stairs, took off the tripod, made three loads, and then, one at a time, sprinted across the fire-swept corner of the Paseo Rosales into the lee of the stone wall of the stables of the old Montana Barracks. We knew we had a good place to work and we felt cheerful. But we were kidding ourselves plenty that it was not too far. \'93Come on, let\'92s go to Chicote\'92s,\'94 I said when we had come up the hill to the Hotel Florida. But they had to repair a camera, to change film and seal up what we had made so I went alone. You were never alone in Spain and it felt good for a change. As I started to walk down the Gran Via to Chicote\'92s in the April twilight I felt happy, cheerful and excited. We had worked hard, and I thought well. But walking down the street alone, all my elation died. Now that I was alone and there was no excitement, I knew we had been too far away and any fool could see the offensive was a failure. I had known it all day but you are often deceived by hope and optimism. But remembering how it looked now, I knew this was just another blood bath like the Somme. The people\'92s army was on the offensive finally. But it was attacking in a way that could do only one thing: destroy itself. And as I put together now what I had seen all day and what I had heard, I felt plenty bad. I knew in the smoke and din of Chicote\'92s that the offensive was a failure and I knew it even stronger when I took my first drink at the crowded bar. When things are all right and it is you that is feeling low a drink can make you feel better. But when things are really bad and you are all right, a drink just makes it clearer. Now, in Chicote\'92s it was so crowded that you had to make room with your elbows to get your drink to your mouth. I had one good long swallow and then someone jostled me so that I spilled pan of the glass of whisky and soda. I looked around angrily and the man who had jostled me laughed. \'93Hello fish face,\'94 he said. \'93Hello you goat.\'94 \'93Let\'92s get a table,\'94 he said. \'93You certainly looked sore when I bumped you.\'94 \'93Where did you come from?\'94 I asked. His leather coat was dirty and greasy, his eyes were hollow and he needed a shave. He had the big Colt automatic that had belonged to three other men that I had known of, and that we were always trying to get shells for, strapped to his leg. He was very tall and his face was smoke-darkened and grease-smudged. He had a leather helment with a heavy leather padded ridge longitudinally over the top and a heavily padded leather rim. \'93Where\'92d you come from?\'94 \'93Casa del Campo,\'94 he said, pronouncing it in a sing-song mocking way we had heard a page boy use in calling in the lobby of a hotel in New Orleans one time and still kept as a private joke. \'93There\'92s a table,\'94 I said as two soldiers and two girls got up to go. \'93Let\'92s get it.\'94 We sat at this table in the middle of the room and I watched him raise his glass. His hands were greasy and the forks of both thumbs black as graphite from the back spit of the machine gun. The hand holding the drink was shaking. \'93Look at them.\'94 He put out the other hand. It was shaking too. \'93Both the same,\'94 he said in that same comic lilt. Then, seriously, \'93You been down there?\'94 \'93We\'92re making a picture of it.\'94 \'93Photograph well?\'94 \'93Not too.\'94 \'93See us?\'94 \'93Where?\'94 \'93Attack on the farm. Three twenty-five this afternoon.\'94 \'93Oh, yes.\'94 \'93Like it?\'94 \'93Nope.\'94 \'93Me either,\'94 he said. \'93Listen the whole thing is just as crazy as a bedbug. Why do they want to make a frontal attack against positions like those? Who in hell thought it up?\'94 \'93An S.O.B. named Largo Caballero,\'94 said a short man with thick glasses who was sitting at the table when we came over to it. \'93The first time they let him look through a pair of field glasses he became a general. This is his masterpiece.\'94 We both looked at the man who spoke. Al Wagner, the tank man, looked at me and raised what had been his eyebrows before they were burnt off. The little man smiled at us. \'93If anyone around here speaks English you\'92re liable to get shot, comrade,\'94 Al said to him. \'93No,\'94 said the little short man. \'93Largo Caballero is liable to be shot. He ought to be shot.\'94 \'93Listen, comrade,\'94 said Al. \'93Just speak a little quieter, will you? Somebody might overhear you and think we were with you.\'94 \'93I know what I\'92m talking about,\'94 said the short man with the very thick glasses. I looked at him carefully. He gave you a certain feeling that he did. \'93Just the same it isn\'92t always a good thing to say what you know,\'94 I said. \'93Have a drink?\'94 \'93Certainly,\'94 he said. \'93It\'92s all right to talk to you. I know you. You\'92re all right.\'94 \'93I\'92m not that all right,\'94 I said. \'93And this is a public bar.\'94 \'93A public bar is the only private place there is. Nobody can hear what we say here. What is your unit, comrade?\'94 \'93I\'92ve got some tanks about eight minutes from here on foot,\'94 Al told him. \'93We are through for the day and I have the early part of this evening off.\'94 \'93Why don\'92t you ever get washed?\'94 I said. \'93I plan to,\'94 said Al. \'93In your room. When we leave here. Have you got any mechanic\'92s soap?\'94 \'93No.\'94 \'93That\'92s all right,\'94 he said. \'93I\'92ve got a little here with me in my pocket that I\'92ve been saving.\'94 The little man with the thick-lensed glasses was looking at Al intently. \'93Are you a party member, comrade?\'94 he asked. \'93Sure,\'94 said Al. \'93I know Comrade Henry here is not,\'94 the little man said. \'93I wouldn\'92t trust him then,\'94 Al said. \'93I never do.\'94 \'93You bastid,\'94 I said. \'93Want to go?\'94 \'93No,\'94 Al said. \'93I need another drink very badly.\'94 \'93I know all about Comrade Henry,\'94 the little man said. \'93Now let me tell you something more about Largo Caballero.\'94 \'93Do we have to hear it?\'94 Al asked. \'93Remember I\'92m in the people\'92s army. You don\'92t think it will discourage me, do you?\'94 \'93You know his head is swelled so badly now he\'92s getting sort of mad. He is Prime Minister and War Minister and nobody can even talk to him any more. You know he\'92s just a good honest trade union leader somewhere between the late Sam Gompers and John L. Lewis but this man Araquistain who invented him?\'94 \'93Take it easy,\'94 said Al. \'93I don\'92t follow.\'94 \'93Oh, Araquistain invented him! Araquistain who is Ambassador in Paris now. He made him up you know. He called him the Spanish Lenin and then the poor man tried to live up to it and somebody let him look through a pair of field glasses and he thought he was Clausewitz.\'94 \'93You said that before,\'94 Al told him coldly. \'93What do you base it on?\'94 \'93Why three days ago in the Cabinet meeting he was talking about military affairs. They were talking about this business we\'92ve got now and Jesus Hernandez, just ribbing him, you know, asked him what was the difference between tactics and strategy. Do you know what the old boy said?\'94 \'93No,\'94 Al said. I could see this new comrade was getting a little on his nerves. \'93He said, \'91In tactics you attack the enemy from in front. In strategy you take him from the sides.\'92 Now isn\'92t that something?\'94 \'93You better run along, comrade,\'94 Al said. \'93You\'92re getting so awfully discouraged.\'94 \'93But we\'92ll get rid of Largo Caballero,\'94 the short comrade said. \'93We\'92ll get rid of him right after his offensive. This last piece of stupidity will be the end of him.\'94 \'93O.K., comrade,\'94 Al told him. \'93But I\'92ve got to attack in the morning.\'94 \'93Oh, you are going to attack again?\'94 \'93Listen, comrade. You can tell me any sort of crap you want because it\'92s interesting and I\'92m grown up enough to sort things out. But don\'92t ask me any questions, see? Because you\'92ll be in trouble.\'94 \'93I just meant it personally. Not as information.\'94 \'93We don\'92t know each other well enough to ask personal questions, comrade,\'94 Al said. \'93Why don\'92t you just go to another table and let Comrade Henry and me talk. I want to ask him some things.\'94 \'93Salud, comrade,\'94 the little man said, standing up. \'93We\'92ll meet another time.\'94 \'93Good,\'94 said Al. \'93Another time.\'94 We watched him go over to another table. He excused himself, some soldiers made room for him, and as we watched we could see him starting to talk. They all looked interested. \'93What do you make of that little guy?\'94 Al asked. \'93I don\'92t know.\'94 \'93Me either,\'94 Al said. \'93He certainly had this offensive sized up.\'94 He took a drink and showed his hand. \'93See? It\'92s all right now. I\'92m not any rummy either. I never take a drink before an attack.\'94 \'93How was it today?\'94 \'93You saw it. How did it look?\'94 \'93Terrible.\'94 \'93That\'92s it. That\'92s the word for it all right. It was terrible. I guess he\'92s using strategy and tactics both now because we are attacking from straight in front and from both sides. How\'92s the rest of it going?\'94 \'93Duran took the new race track. The hip\'f3dromo. We\'92ve narrowed down on the corridor that runs up into University City. Up above we crossed the Coru\'f1a road. And we\'92re stopped at the Cerro de Aguilar since yesterday morning. We were up that way this morning. Duran lost over half his brigade, I heard. How is it with you?\'94 \'93Tomorrow we\'92re going to try those farm houses and the church again. The church on the hill, the one they call the hermit, is the objective. The whole hillside is cut by those gullies and it\'92s all enfiladed at least three ways by machine-gun posts. They\'92re dug deep all through there and it\'92s well done. We haven\'92t got enough artillery to give any kind of real covering fire to keep them down and we haven\'92t heavy artillery to blow them out. They\'92ve got anti-tanks in those three houses and an antitank battery by the church. It\'92s going to be murder.\'94 \'93When\'92s it for?\'94 \'93Don\'92t ask me. I\'92ve got no right to tell you that.\'94 \'93If we have to film it, I meant,\'94 I said. \'93The money from the film all goes for ambulances. We\'92ve got the Twelfth Brigade in the counter-attack at the Argada Bridge. And we\'92ve got the Twelfth again in that attack last week by Pingarron. We got some good tank shots there.\'94 \'93The tanks were no good there,\'94 Al said. \'93I know,\'94 I said, \'93but they photographed very well. What about tomorrow?\'94 \'93Just get out early and wait,\'94 he said. \'93Not too early.\'94 \'93How you feel now?\'94 \'93I\'92m awfully tired,\'94 he said. \'93And I\'92ve got a bad headache. But I feel a lot better. Let\'92s have another one and then go up to your place and get a bath.\'94 \'93Maybe we ought to eat first.\'94 \'93I\'92m too dirty to eat. You can hold a place and I\'92ll go get a bath and join you at the Gran Via.\'94 \'93I\'92ll go up with you.\'94 \'93No. It\'92s better to hold a place and I\'92ll join you.\'94 He leaned his head forward on the table. \'93Boy I got a headache. It\'92s the noise in those buckets. I never hear it any more but it does something to your ears just the same.\'94 \'93Why don\'92t you go to bed?\'94 \'93No. I\'92d rather stay up with you for a while and then sleep when I got back down there. I don\'92t want to wake up twice.\'94 \'93You haven\'92t got the horrors, have you?\'94 \'93No,\'94 he said. \'93I\'92m fine. Listen, Hank. I don\'92t want to talk a lot of crap but I think I\'92m going to get killed tomorrow.\'94 I touched the table three times with my fingertips. \'93Everybody feels like that. I\'92ve felt like that plenty of times.\'94 \'93No,\'94 he said. \'93It\'92s not natural with me. But where we\'92ve got to go tomorrow doesn\'92t make sense. I don\'92t even know that I can get them up there. You can\'92t make them move if they won\'92t go. You can shoot them afterwards. But at the time if they won\'92t go they won\'92t go. If you shoot them they still won\'92t go.\'94 \'93Maybe it will be all right.\'94 \'93No. We\'92ve got good infantry tomorrow. They\'92ll go anyway. Not like those yellow bastids we had the first day.\'94 \'93Maybe it will be all right.\'94 \'93No,\'94 he said. \'93It won\'92t be all right. But it will be just exactly as good as I can make it. I can make them start all right and I can take them up to where they will have to quit one at a time. Maybe they can make it. I\'92ve got three I can rely on. If only one of the good ones doesn\'92t get knocked out at the start.\'94 \'93Who are your good ones?\'94 \'93I\'92ve got a big Greek from Chicago that will go anywhere. He\'92s just as good as they come. I\'92ve got a Frenchman from Marseille that\'92s got his left shoulder in a cast with two wounds still draining that asked to come out of the hospital in the Palace Hotel for this show and has to be strapped in and I don\'92t know how he can do it. Just technically I mean. He\'92d break your bloody heart. He used to be a taxi driver.\'94 He stopped. \'93I\'92m talking too much. Stop me if I talk too much.\'94 \'93Who\'92s the third one?\'94 I asked. \'93The third one? Did I say I had a third one?\'94 \'93Sure.\'94 \'93Oh, yes,\'94 he said. \'93That\'92s me.\'94 \'93What about the others?\'94 \'93They\'92re mechanics, but they couldn\'92t learn to soldier. They can\'92t size up what\'92s happening. And they\'92re all afraid to die. I tried to get them over it,\'94 he said. \'93But it comes back on them every attack. They look like tank men when you see them by the tanks with the helmets on. They look like tank men when they get in. But when they shut the traps down there\'92s really nothing inside. They aren\'92t tank men. And so far we haven\'92t had time to make new ones.\'94 \'93Do you want to take the bath?\'94 \'93Let\'92s sit here a little while longer,\'94 he said. \'93It\'92s nice here.\'94 \'93It\'92s funny all right, with a war right down the end of the street so you can walk to it, and then leave it and come here.\'94 \'93And then walk back to it,\'94 Al said. \'93What about a girl? There\'92s two American girls at the Florida. Newspaper correspondents. Maybe you could make one.\'94 \'93I don\'92t want to have to talk to them. I\'92m too tired.\'94 \'93There\'92s the two Moor girls from Ceuta at that corner table.\'94 He looked over at them. They were both dark and bushy-headed. One was large and one was small and they certainly both looked strong and active. \'93No,\'94 said Al. \'93I\'92m going to see plenty Moors tomorrow without having to fool with them tonight.\'94 \'93There\'92s plenty of girls,\'94 I said. \'93Manolita\'92s at the Florida. That Seguridad bird she lives with has gone to Valencia and she\'92s being true to him with everybody.\'94 \'93Listen, Hank, what are you trying to promote me?\'94 \'93I just wanted to cheer you up.\'94 \'93Grow up,\'94 he said. \'93What\'92s one more?\'94 \'93One more.\'94 \'93I don\'92t mind dying a bit,\'94 he said. \'93Dying is just a lot of crap. Only it\'92s wasteful. The attack is wrong and it\'92s wasteful. I can handle tanks good now. If I had time I could make good tankists too. And if we had tanks that were a little bit faster the anti-tanks wouldn\'92t bother them the way it does when you haven\'92t got the mobility. Listen, Hank, they aren\'92t what we thought they were though. Do you remember when everybody thought if we only had tanks?\'94 \'93They were good at Gaudalajara.\'94 \'93Sure. But those were the old boys. They were soldiers. And it was against Italians.\'94 \'93But what\'92s happened?\'94 \'93A lot of things. The mercenaries signed up for six months. Most of them were Frenchmen. They soldiered good for five but now all they want to do is live through the last month and go home. They aren\'92t worth a damn now. The Russians that came out as demonstrators when the government bought the tanks were perfect. But they\'92re pulling them back now for China they say. The new Spaniards are some of them good and some not. It takes six months to make a good tank man, I mean to know anything. And to be able to size up and work intelligently you have to have a talent. We\'92ve been having to make them in six weeks and there aren\'92t so many with a talent.\'94 \'93They make fine flyers.\'94 \'93They\'92ll make fine tank guys too. But you have to get the ones with a vocation for it. It\'92s sort of like being a priest. You have to be cut out for it. Especially now they\'92ve got so much anti-tank.\'94 They had pulled down the shutters in Chicote\'92s and now they were locking the door. No one would be allowed in now. But you had a half an hour more before they closed. \'93I like it here,\'94 said Al. \'93It isn\'92t so noisy now. Remember that time I met you in New Orleans when I was on a ship and we went in to have a drink in the Monteleone bar and that kid that looked just like Saint Sebastian was paging people with that funny voice like he was singing and I gave him a quarter to page Mr. B. F. Slob?\'94 \'93That\'92s the same way you said \'91Casa del Campo.\'92 \'94 \'93Yeah,\'94 he said. \'93I laugh every time I think of that.\'94 Then he went on, \'93You see, now, they\'92re not frightened of tanks any more. Nobody is. We aren\'92t either. But they\'92re still useful. Really useful. Only with the anti-tank now they\'92re so damn vulnerable. Maybe I ought to be in something else. Not really. Because they\'92re still useful. But the way they are now you\'92ve got to have a vocation for them. You got to have a lot of political development to be a good tank man now.\'94 \'93You\'92re a good tank man.\'94 \'93I\'92d like to be something else tomorrow,\'94 he said. \'93I\'92m talking awfully wet but you have a right to talk wet if it isn\'92t going to hurt anybody else. You know I like tanks too, only we don\'92t use them right because the infantry don\'92t know enough yet. They just want the old tank ahead to give them some cover while they go. That\'92s no good. Then they get to depending on the tanks and they won\'92t move without them. Sometimes they won\'92t even deploy.\'94 \'93I know.\'94 \'93But you see if you had tankists that knew their stuff they\'92d go out ahead and develop the machine-gun fire and then drop back behind the infantry and fire on the gun and knock it out and give the infantry covering fire when they attacked. And other tanks could rush the machine-gun posts as though they were cavalry. And they could straddle a trench and enfilade and put flaking fire down it. And they could bring up infantry when it was right to or cover their advance when that was best.\'94 \'93But instead?\'94 \'93Instead it\'92s like it will be tomorrow. We have so damned few guns that we\'92re just used as slightly mobile armored artillery units. And as soon as you are standing still and being light artillery, you\'92ve lost your mobility and that\'92s your safety and they start sniping at you with the anti-tanks. And if we\'92re not that we\'92re just sort of iron perambulators to push ahead of the infantry. And lately you don\'92t know whether the perambulator will push or whether the guys inside will push them. And you never know if there\'92s going to be anybody behind you when you get there.\'94 \'93How many are you now to a brigade?\'94 \'93Six to a battalion. Thirty to a brigade. That\'92s in principle.\'94 \'93Why don\'92t you come along now and get the bath and we\'92ll go and eat?\'94 \'93All right. But don\'92t you start taking care of me or thinking I\'92m worried or anything because I\'92m not. I\'92m just tired and I wanted to talk. And don\'92t give me any pep talk either because we\'92ve got a political commissar and I know what I\'92m fighting for and I\'92m not worried. But I\'92d like things to be efficient and used as intelligently as possible.\'94 \'93What made you think I was going to give you any pep talk?\'94 \'93You started to look like it.\'94 \'93All I tried to do was see if you wanted a girl and not to talk too wet about getting killed.\'94 \'93Well, I don\'92t want any girl tonight and I\'92ll talk just as wet as I please unless it does damage to others. Does it damage you?\'94 \'93Come on and get the bath,\'94 I said. \'93You can talk just as bloody wet as you want.\'94 \'93Who do you suppose that little guy was that talked as though he knew so much?\'94 \'93I don\'92t know,\'94 I said. \'93But I\'92m going to find out.\'94 \'93He made me gloomy,\'94 said Al. \'93Come on. Let\'92s go.\'94 The old waiter with the bald head unlocked the outside door of Chicote\'92s and let us out into the street. \'93How is the offensive, comrades?\'94 he said at the door. \'93It\'92s O.K., comrade,\'94 said Al. \'93It\'92s all right.\'94 \'93I am happy,\'94 said the waiter. \'93My boy is in the One Hundred and Forty-fifth Brigade. Have you seen them?\'94 \'93I am of the tanks,\'94 said Al. \'93This comrade makes a cinema. Have you seen the Hundred and Forty-fifth?\'94 \'93No,\'94 I said. \'93They are up the Extremadura road,\'94 the old waiter said. \'93My boy is political commissar of the machine-gun company of his battalion. He is my youngest boy. He is twenty.\'94 \'93What party are you comrade?\'94 Al asked him. \'93I am of no party,\'94 the waiter said. \'93But my boy is a Communist.\'94 \'93So am I,\'94 said Al. \'93The offensive, comrade, has not yet reached a decision. It is very difficult. The fascists hold very strong positions. You, in the rear-guard, must be as firm as we will be at the front. We may not take these positions now but we have proved we now have an army capable of going on the offensive and you will see what it will do.\'94 \'93And the Extremadura road?\'94 asked the old waiter, still holding on to the door. \'93Is it very dangerous there?\'94 \'93No,\'94 said Al. \'93It\'92s fine up there. You don\'92t need to worry about him up there.\'94 \'93God bless you,\'94 said the waiter. \'93God guard you and keep you.\'94 Outside in the dark street, Al said, \'93Jees he\'92s kind of confused politically, isn\'92t he?\'94 \'93He is a good guy,\'94 I said. \'93I\'92ve known him for a long time.\'94 \'93He seems like a good guy,\'94 Al said. \'93But he ought to get wise to himself politically.\'94 The room at the Florida was crowded. They were playing the gramophone and it was full of smoke and there was a crap game going on the floor. Comrades kept coming in to use the bathtub and the room smelt of smoke, soap, dirty uniforms, and steam from the bathroom. The Spanish girl called Manolita, very neat, demurely dressed, with a sort of false French chic, with much joviality, much dignity and closely set cold eyes, was sitting on the bed talking with an English newspaper man. Except for the gramophone it wasn\'92t very noisy. \'93It is your room, isn\'92t it?\'94 the English newspaper man said. \'93It\'92s in my name at the desk,\'94 I said. \'93I sleep in it sometimes.\'94 \'93But whose is the whisky?\'94 he asked. \'93Mine,\'94 said Manolita. \'93They drank that bottle so I got another.\'94 \'93You\'92re a good girl, daughter,\'94 I said. \'93That\'92s three I owe you.\'94 \'93Two,\'94 she said. \'93The other was a present.\'94 There was a huge cooked ham, rosy and white edged in a half-opened tin on the table beside my typewriter and a comrade would reach up, cut himself a slice of ham with his pocket knife, and go back to the crap game. I cut myself a slice of ham. \'93You\'92re next on the tub,\'94 I said to Al. He had been looking around the room. \'93It\'92s nice here,\'94 he said. \'93Where did the ham come from?\'94 \'93We bought it from the intendencia of one of the brigades,\'94 she said. \'93Isn\'92t it beautiful?\'94 \'93Who\'92s we?\'94 \'93He and I,\'94 she said, turning her head toward the English correspondent. \'93Don\'92t you think he\'92s cute?\'94 \'93Manolita has been most kind,\'94 said the Englishman. \'93I hope we\'92re not disturbing you.\'94 \'93Not at all,\'94 I said. \'93Later on I might want to use the bed but that won\'92t be until much later.\'94 \'93We can have a party in my room,\'94 Manolita said. \'93You aren\'92t cross are you, Henry?\'94 \'93Never,\'94 I said. \'93Who are the comrades shooting craps?\'94 \'93I don\'92t know,\'94 said Manolita. \'93They came in for baths and then they stayed to shoot craps. Everyone has been very nice. You know my bad news?\'94 \'93No.\'94 \'93It\'92s very bad. You knew my fianc\'e9 who was in the police and went to Barcelona?\'94 \'93Yes. Sure.\'94 Al went into the bathroom. \'93Well, he was shot in an accident and I haven\'92t any one I can depend on in police circles and he never got me the papers he had promised me and today I heard I was going to be arrested.\'94 \'93Why?\'94 \'93Because I have no papers and they say I hang around with you people and with people from the brigades all the time so I am probably a spy. If my fianc\'e9 had not gotten himself shot it would have been all right. Will you help me?\'94 \'93Sure,\'94 I said. \'93Nothing will happen to you if you\'92re all right.\'94 \'93I think I\'92d better stay with you to be sure.\'94 \'93And if you\'92re not all right that would be fine for me, wouldn\'92t it?\'94 \'93Can\'92t I stay with you?\'94 \'93No. If you get in trouble call me up. I never heard you ask anybody any military questions. I think you\'92re all right.\'94 \'93I\'92m really all right,\'94 she said then, leaning over, away from the Englishman. \'93You think it\'92s all right to stay with him? Is he all right?\'94 \'93How do I know?\'94 I said. \'93I never saw him before.\'94 \'93You\'92re being cross,\'94 she said. \'93Let\'92s not think about it now but everyone be happy and go out to dinner.\'94 I went over to the crap game. \'93You want to go out to dinner?\'94 \'93No, comrade,\'94 said the man handling the dice without looking up. \'93You want to get in the game?\'94 \'93I want to eat.\'94 \'93We\'92ll be here when you get back,\'94 said another crap shooter. \'93Come on, roll, I\'92ve got you covered.\'94 \'93If you run into any money bring it up here to the game.\'94 There was one in the room I knew besides Manolita. He was from the Twelfth Brigade and he was playing the gramophone. He was a Hungarian, a sad Hungarian, not one of the cheerful kind. \'93Salud camarade,\'94 he said. \'93Thank you for your hospitality.\'94 \'93Don\'92t you shoot craps?\'94 I asked him. \'93I haven\'92t that sort of money,\'94 he said. \'93They are aviators with contracts. Mercenaries \'85 They make a thousand dollars a month. They were on the Teruel front and now they have come here.\'94 \'93How did they come up here?\'94 \'93One of them knows you. But he had to go out to his field. They came for him in a car and the game had already started.\'94 \'93I\'92m glad you came up,\'94 I said. \'93Come up any time and make yourself at home.\'94 \'93I came to play the new discs,\'94 he said. \'93It does not disturb you?\'94 \'93No. It\'92s fine. Have a drink.\'94 \'93A little ham,\'94 he said. One of the crap shooters reached up and cut a slice of ham. \'93You haven\'92t seen this guy Henry around that owns the place, have you?\'94 he asked me. \'93That\'92s me.\'94 \'93Oh,\'94 he said. \'93Sorry. Want to get in the game?\'94 \'93Later on,\'94 I said. \'93O.K.,\'94 he said. Then his mouth full of ham, \'93Listen you tar heel bastid. Make your dice hit the wall and bounce.\'94 \'93Won\'92t make no difference to you, comrade,\'94 said the man handling the dice. Al came out of the bathroom. He looked all clean except for some smudges around his eyes. \'93You can take those off with a towel,\'94 I said. \'93What?\'94 \'93Look at yourself once more in the mirror.\'94 \'93It\'92s too steamy.\'94 he said. \'93To hell with it, I feel clean.\'94 \'93Let\'92s eat,\'94 I said. \'93Come on, Manolita. You know each other?\'94 I watched her eyes run over Al. \'93How are you?\'94 Manolita said. \'93I say that is a sound idea,\'94 the Englishman said. \'93Do let\'92s eat. But where?\'94 \'93Is that a crap game?\'94 Al said. \'93Didn\'92t you see it when you came in?\'94 \'93No,\'94 he said. \'93All I saw was the ham.\'94 \'93It\'92s a crap game.\'94 \'93You go and eat,\'94 Al said. \'93I\'92m staying here.\'94 As we went out there were six of them on the floor and Al Wagner was reaching up to cut a slice of ham. \'93What do you do, comrade?\'94 I heard one of the flyers say to Al. \'93Tanks.\'94 \'93Tell me they aren\'92t any good any more,\'94 said the flyer. \'93Tell you a lot of things,\'94 Al said. \'93What you got there? Some dice?\'94 \'93Want to look at them?\'94 \'93No,\'94 said Al. \'93I want to handle them.\'94 We went down the hall, Manolita, me and the tall Englishman, and found the boys had left already for the Gran Via restaurant. The Hungarian had stayed behind to replay the new discs. I was very hungry and the food at the Gran Via was lousy. The two who were making the film had already eaten and gone back to work on the bad camera. This restaurant was in the basement and you had to pass a guard and go through the kitchen and down a stairs to get to it. It was a racket. They had a millet and water soup, yellow rice with horse meat in it, and oranges for dessert. There had been another dish of chickpeas with sausage in it that everybody said was terrible but it had run out. The newspaper men all sat at one table and the other tables were filled with officers and girls from Chicote\'92s, people from the censorship, which was then in the telephone building across the street, and various unknown citizens. The restaurant was run by an anarchist syndicate and they sold you wine that was all stamped with the label of the royal cellars and the date it had been put in the bins. Most of it was so old that it was either corked or just plain faded out and gone to pieces. You can\'92t drink labels and I sent three bottles back as bad before we got a drinkable one. There was a row about this. The waiters didn\'92t know the different wines. They just brought you a bottle of wine and you took your chances. They were as different from the Chicote\'92s waiters as black from white. These waiters were all snotty, all over-tipped and they regularly had special dishes such as lobster or chicken that they sold extra for gigantic prices. But these had all been bought up before we got there so we just drew the soup, the rice and the oranges. The place always made me angry because the waiters were a crooked lot of profiteers and it was about as expensive to eat in, if you had one of the special dishes, as 21 or the Colony in New York. We were sitting at the table with a bottle of wine that just wasn\'92t bad, you know you could taste it starting to go, but it wouldn\'92t justify making a row about, when Al Wagner came in. He looked around the room, saw us and came over. \'93What\'92s the matter?\'94 I said. \'93They broke me,\'94 he said. \'93It didn\'92t take very long.\'94 \'93Not with those guys,\'94 he said. \'93That\'92s a big game. What have they got to eat?\'94 I called a waiter over. \'93It\'92s too late,\'94 he said. \'93We can\'92t serve anything now.\'94 \'93This comrade is in the tanks,\'94 I said. \'93He has fought all day and he will fight tomorrow and he hasn\'92t eaten.\'94 \'93That\'92s not my fault,\'94 the waiter said. \'93It\'92s too late. There isn\'92t anything more. Why doesn\'92t the comrade eat with his unit? The army has plenty of food.\'94 \'93I asked him to eat with me.\'94 \'93You should have said something about it. It\'92s too late now. We are not serving anything any more.\'94 \'93Get the head waiter.\'94 The headwaiter said the cook had gone home and there was no fire in the kitchen. He went away. They were angry because we had sent the bad wine back. \'93The hell with it,\'94 said Al. \'93Let\'92s go somewhere else.\'94 \'93There\'92s no place you can eat at this hour. They\'92ve got food. I\'92ll just have to go over and suck up to the headwaiter and give him some more money.\'94 I went over and did just that and the sullen waiter brought a plate of cold sliced meats, then half a spiny lobster with mayonnaise, and a salad of lettuce and lentils. The headwaiter sold this out of his private stock which he was holding out either to take home, or sell to late comers. \'93Cost you much?\'94 Al asked. \'93No,\'94 I lied. \'93I\'92ll bet it did,\'94 he said. \'93I\'92ll fix up with you when I get paid.\'94 \'93What do you get now?\'94 \'93I don\'92t know yet. It was ten pesetas a day but they\'92ve raised it now I\'92m an officer. But we haven\'92t got it yet and I haven\'92t asked.\'94 \'93Comrade,\'94 I called the waiter. He came over, still angry that the headwaiter had gone over his head and served Al. \'93Bring another bottle of wine, please.\'94 \'93What kind?\'94 \'93Any that is not too old so that the red is faded.\'94 \'93It\'92s all the same.\'94 I said the equivalent of like hell it is in Spanish, and the waiter brought over a bottle of Ch\'e2teau Mouton-Rothschild 1906 that was just as good as the last claret we had was rotten. \'93Boy that\'92s wine,\'94 Al said. \'93What did you tell him to get that?\'94 \'93Nothing. He just made a lucky draw out of the bin.\'94 \'93Most of that stuff from the palace stinks.\'94 \'93It\'92s too old. This is a hell of a climate on wine.\'94 \'93There\'92s that wise comrade,\'94 Al nodded across at another table. The little man with the thick glasses that had talked to us about Largo Caballero was talking with some people I knew were very big shots indeed. \'93I guess he\'92s a big shot,\'94 I said. \'93When they\'92re high enough up they don\'92t give a damn what they say. But I wish he would have waited until after tomorrow. It\'92s kind of spoiled tomorrow for me.\'94 I filled his glass. \'93What he said sounded pretty sensible,\'94 Al went on. \'93I\'92ve been thinking it over. But my duty is to do what I\'92m ordered to do.\'94 \'93Don\'92t worry about it and get some sleep.\'94 \'93I\'92m going to get in that game again if you\'92ll let me take a thousand pesetas,\'94 Al said. \'93I\'92ve got a lot more than that coming to me and I\'92ll give you an order on my pay.\'94 \'93I don\'92t want any order. You can pay me when you get it.\'94 \'93I don\'92t think I\'92m going to draw it,\'94 Al said. \'93I certainly sound wet, don\'92t I? And I know gambling\'92s bohemianism too. But in a game like that is the only time I don\'92t think about tomorrow.\'94 \'93Did you like that Manolita girl? She liked you.\'94 \'93She\'92s got eyes like a snake.\'94 \'93She\'92s not a bad girl. She\'92s friendly and she\'92s all right.\'94 \'93I don\'92t want any girl. I want to get back in that crap game.\'94 Down the table Manolita was laughing at something the new Englishman had said in Spanish. Most of the people had left the table. \'93Let\'92s finish the wine and go,\'94 Al said. \'93Don\'92t you want to get in that game?\'94 \'93I\'92ll watch you for a while,\'94 I said and called the waiter over to bring us the bill. \'93Where you go?\'94 Manolita called down the table. \'93To the room.\'94 \'93We come by later on,\'94 she said. \'93This man is very funny.\'94 \'93She is making most awful sport of me,\'94 the Englishman said. \'93She picks up on my errors in Spanish. I say, doesn\'92t leche mean milk?\'94 \'93That\'92s one interpretation of it.\'94 \'93Does it mean something beastly too?\'94 \'93I\'92m afraid so,\'94 I said. \'93You know it is a beastly language,\'94 he said. \'93Now Manolita, stop pulling my leg. I say stop it.\'94 \'93I\'92m not pulling your leg,\'94 Manolita laughed. \'93I never touched your leg. I am just laughing about the leche.\'94 \'93But it does mean milk. Didn\'92t you just hear Edwin Henry say so?\'94 Manolita started to laugh again and we got up to go. \'93He\'92s a silly piece of work,\'94 Al said. \'93I\'92d almost like to take her away because he\'92s so silly.\'94 \'93You can never tell about an Englishman,\'94 I said. It was such a profound remark that I knew we had ordered too many bottles. Outside, in the street, it was turning cold and in the moonlight the clouds were passing very big and white across the wide, building-sided canyon of the Gran Via and we walked up the sidewalk with the day\'92s fresh shell holes neatly cut in the cement, their rubble still not swept away, on up the rise of the hill toward the Plaza Callao where the Florida Hotel faced down the other little hill where the wide street ran that ended at the front. We went past the two guards in the dark outside the door of the hotel and listened a minute in the doorway as the shooting down the street strengthened into a roll of firing, then dropped off. \'93If it keeps up I guess I ought to go down,\'94 Al said listening. \'93That wasn\'92t anything,\'94 I said. \'93Anyway that was off to the left by Carabanchel.\'94 \'93It sounded straight down in the Campo.\'94 \'93That\'92s the way the sound throws here at night. It always fools you.\'94 \'93They aren\'92t going to counterattack us tonight,\'94 Al said. \'93When they\'92ve got those positions and we are up that creek they aren\'92t going to leave their positions to try to kick us out of that creek.\'94 \'93What creek?\'94 \'93You know the name of that creek.\'94 \'93Oh. That creek.\'94 \'93Yeah. Up that creek without a paddle.\'94 \'93Come on inside. You didn\'92t have to listen to that firing. That\'92s the way it is every night.\'94 We went inside, crossed the lobby, passing the night watchman at the concierge\'92s desk and the night watchman got up and went with us to the elevator. He pushed a button and the elevator came down. In it was a man with a white curly sheep\'92s wool jacket, the wool worn inside, a pink bald head, and a pink, angry face. He had six bottles of champagne under his arms and in his hands and he said, \'93What the hell\'92s the idea of bringing the elevator down?\'94 \'93You\'92ve been riding in the elevator for an hour,\'94 the night watchman said. \'93I can\'92t help it,\'94 said the wooly jacket man. Then to me, \'93Where\'92s Frank?\'94 \'93Frank who?\'94 \'93You know Frank,\'94 he said. \'93Come on, help me with this elevator.\'94 \'93You\'92re drunk,\'94 I said to him. \'93Come on, skip it and let us get upstairs.\'94 \'93So would you be drunk,\'94 said the white woolly jacket man. \'93So would you be drunk comrade old comrade. Listen, where\'92s Frank?\'94 \'93Where do you think he is?\'94 \'93In this fellow Henry\'92s room where the crap game is.\'94 \'93Come on with us,\'94 I said. \'93Don\'92t fool with those buttons. That\'92s why you stop it all the time.\'94 \'93I can fly anything,\'94 said the woolly jacket man. \'93And I can fly this old elevator. Want me to stunt it?\'94 \'93Skip it,\'94 Al said to him. \'93You\'92re drunk. We want to get to the crap game.\'94 \'93Who are you? I\'92ll hit you with a bottle full of champagne wine.\'94 \'93Try it,\'94 said Al. \'93I\'92d like to cool you, you rummy fake Santa Claus.\'94 \'93A rummy fake Santa Claus,\'94 said the bald man. \'93A rummy fake Santa Claus. And that\'92s the thanks of the Republic.\'94 We had gotten the elevator stopped at my floor and were walking down the hall. \'93Take some bottles,\'94 said the bald man. Then, \'93Do you know why I\'92m drunk?\'94 \'93No.\'94 \'93Well, I won\'92t tell you. But you\'92d be surprised. A rummy fake Santa Claus. Well well well. What are you in, comrade?\'94 \'93Tanks.\'94 \'93And you, comrade?\'94 \'93Making a picture.\'94 \'93And I\'92m a rummy fake Santa Claus. Well. Well. Well. I repeat. Well. Well. Well.\'94 \'93Go and drown in it,\'94 said Al. \'93You rummy fake Santa Claus.\'94 We were outside the room now. The man in the white woolly coat took hold of Al\'92s arm with his thumb and forefinger. \'93You amuse me, comrade,\'94 he said. \'93You truly amuse me.\'94 I opened the door. The room was full of smoke and the game looked just as when we had left it except the ham was all gone off the table and the whisky all gone out of the bottle. \'93It\'92s Baldy,\'94 said one of the crap shooters. \'93How do you do, comrades,\'94 said Baldy, bowing. \'93How do you do? How do you do? How do you do?\'94 The game broke up and they all started to shoot questions at him. \'93I have made my report, comrades,\'94 Baldy said. \'93And here is a little champagne wine. I am no longer interested in any but the picturesque aspects of the whole affair.\'94 \'93Where did your wingmen muck off to?\'94 \'93It wasn\'92t their fault,\'94 said Baldy. \'93I was engaged in contemplating a terrific spectacle and I was ob-livious of the fact that I had any wingmen until all of those Fiats started coming down over, past and under me and I realized that my trusty little air-o-plane no longer had any tail.\'94 \'93Jees I wish you weren\'92t drunk,\'94 said one of the flyers. \'93But I am drunk,\'94 said Baldy. \'93And I hope all you gentlemen and comrades will join me because I am very happy tonight even though I have been insulted by an ignorant tank man who has called me a rummy fake Santa Claus.\'94 \'93I wish you were sober,\'94 the other flyer said. \'93How\'92d you get back to the field?\'94 \'93Don\'92t ask me any questions,\'94 Baldy said with great dignity. \'93I returned in a staff car of the Twelfth Brigade. When I alighted with my trusty para-chute there was a tendency to regard me as a criminal fascist due to my inability to master the Lanish Spanguage. But all difficulties were smoothed away when I convinced them of my identity and I was treated with rare consideration. Oh boy you ought to have seen that Junker when she started to burn. That\'92s what I was watching when the Fiats dove on me. Oh boy I wish I could tell you.\'94 \'93He shot a tri-moter Junker down today over the Jarama and his wingmen mucked off on him and he got shot down and bailed out,\'94 one of the flyers said. \'93You know him. Baldy Jackson.\'94 \'93How far did you drop before you pulled your rip cord, Baldy?\'94 asked another flyer. \'93All of six thousand feet and I think my diaphragm is busted loose in front from when she came taut. I thought it would cut me in two. There must have been fifteen Fiats and I wanted to get completely clear. I had to fool with the chute plenty to get down on the right side of the river. I had to slip her plenty and I hit pretty hard. The wind was good.\'94 \'93Frank had to go back to Alcal\'e1,\'94 another flyer said. \'93We started a crap game. We got to get back there before daylight.\'94 \'93I am in no mood to toy with the dice,\'94 said Baldy. \'93I am in a mood to drink champagne wine out of glasses with cigarette butts in them.\'94 \'93I\'92ll wash them,\'94 said Al. \'93For Comrade Fake Santa Claus,\'94 said Baldy. \'93For old Comrade Claus.\'94 \'93Skip it,\'94 said Al. He picked up the glasses and took them to the bathroom. \'93Is he in the tanks?\'94 asked one of the flyers. \'93Yes. He\'92s been there since the start.\'94 \'93They tell me the tanks aren\'92t any good any more,\'94 a flyer said. \'93You told him that once,\'94 I said. \'93Why don\'92t you lay off? He\'92s been working all day.\'94 \'93So have we. But I mean really they aren\'92t any good, are they?\'94 \'93Not so good. But he\'92s good.\'94 \'93I guess he\'92s all right. He looks like a nice fellow. What kind of money do they make?\'94 \'93They got ten pesetas a day,\'94 I said. \'93Now he gets a lieutenant\'92s pay.\'94 \'93Spanish lieutenant?\'94 \'93Yes.\'94 \'93I guess he\'92s nuts all right. Or has he got politics?\'94 \'93He\'92s got politics.\'94 \'93Oh, well,\'94 he said. \'93That explains it. Say Baldy, you must have had a hell of a time bailing out with that wind pressure with the tail gone.\'94 \'93Yes, comrade,\'94 said Baldy. \'93How did you feel?\'94 \'93I was thinking all the time, comrade.\'94 \'93Baldy, how many bailed out of the Junker?\'94 \'93Four,\'94 said Baldy, \'93out of a crew of six. I was sure I\'92d killed the pilot. I noticed when he quit firing. There\'92s a co-pilot that\'92s a gunner too and I\'92m pretty sure I got him too. I must have because he quit firing too. But maybe it was the heat. Anyhow four came out. Would you like me to describe the scene? I can describe the scene very well.\'94 He was sitting on the bed now with a large water glass of champagne in his hand and his pink head and pink face were moist with sweat. \'93Why doesn\'92t anyone drink to me?\'94 asked Baldy. \'93I would like all comrades to drink to me and then I will describe the scene in all its horror and its beauty.\'94 We all drank. \'93Where was I?\'94 asked Baldy. \'93Just coming out of the McAlester Hotel,\'94 a flyer said. \'93In all your horror and your beauty\'97 don\'92t clown, Baldy. Oddly enough we\'92re interested.\'94 \'93I will describe it,\'94 said Baldy. \'93But first I must have more champagne wine.\'94 He had drained the glass when we drank to him. \'93If he drinks like that he\'92ll go to sleep,\'94 another flyer said. \'93Only give him half a glass.\'94 Baldy drank it off. \'93I will describe it,\'94 he said. \'93After another little drink.\'94 \'93Listen, Baldy, take it easy will you? This is something we want to get straight. You got no ship now for a few days but we\'92re flying tomorrow and this is important as well as interesting.\'94 \'93I made my report,\'94 said Baldy. \'93You can read it out at the field. They\'92ll have a copy.\'94 \'93Come on, Baldy, snap out of it.\'94 \'93I will describe it eventually,\'94 said Baldy. He shut and opened his eyes several times, then said, \'93Hello Comrade Santa Claus\'94 to Al. \'93I will describe it eventually. All you comrades have to do is listen.\'94 And he described it. \'93It was very strange and very beautiful,\'94 Baldy said and drank off the glass of champagne. \'93Cut it out, Baldy,\'94 a flyer said. \'93I have experienced profound emotions,\'94 Baldy said. \'93Highly profound emotions. Emotions of the deepest dye.\'94 \'93Let\'92s get back to Alcal\'e1,\'94 one flyer said. \'93That pink head isn\'92t going to make sense. What about the game?\'94 \'93He\'92s going to make sense,\'94 another flyer said. \'93He\'92s just winding up.\'94 \'93Are you criticizing me?\'94 asked Baldy. \'93Is that the thanks of the Republic?\'94 \'93Listen, Santa Claus,\'94 Al said. \'93What was it like?\'94 \'93Are you asking me?\'94 Baldy stared at him. \'93Are you putting questions to me? Have you ever been in action, comrade?\'94 \'93No,\'94 said Al. \'93I got these eyebrows burnt off when I was shaving.\'94 \'93Keep your drawers on, comrade,\'94 said Baldy. \'93I will describe the strange and beautiful scene. I\'92m a writer, you know, as well as a flyer.\'94 He nodded his head in confirmation of his own statement. \'93He writes for the Meridian, Mississippi, Argus,\'94 said a flyer. \'93All the time. They can\'92t stop him.\'94 \'93I have talent as a writer,\'94 said Baldy. \'93I have a fresh and original talent for description. I have a newspaper clipping which I have lost which says so. Now I will launch myself on the description.\'94 \'93O.K. What did it look like?\'94 \'93Comrades,\'94 said Baldy. \'93You can\'92t describe it.\'94 He held out his glass. \'93What did I tell you?\'94 said a flyer. \'93He couldn\'92t make sense in a month. He never could make sense.\'94 \'93You,\'94 said Baldy, \'93you unfortunate little fellow. All right. When I banked out of it I looked down and of course she had been pouring back smoke but she was holding right on her course to get over the mountains. She was losing altitude fast and I came up and over and dove on her again. There were still wingmen then and she\'92d lurched and started to smoke twice as much and then the door of the cockpit came open and it was just like looking into a blast furnace, and then they started to come out. I\'92d half rolled, dove, and then pulled up out of it and I was looking back and down and they were coming out of her, out through the blast furnace door, dropping out trying to get clear, and the chutes opened up and they looked like great big beautiful morning glories opening up and she was just one big thing of flame now like you never saw and going round and round and there were four chutes just as beautiful as anything you could see just pulling slow against the sky and then one started to burn at the edge and as it burned the man started to drop fast and I was watching him when the bullets started to come by and the Fiats right behind them and the bullets and the Fiats.\'94 \'93You\'92re a writer all right,\'94 said one flyer. \'93You ought to write for War Aces. Do you mind telling me in plain language what happened?\'94 \'93No,\'94 said Baldy. \'93I\'92ll tell you. But you know, no kidding, it was something to see. And I never shot down any big tri-motor Junkers before and I\'92m happy.\'94 \'93Everybody\'92s happy, Baldy. Tell us what happened, really.\'94 \'93O.K.\'94 said Baldy. \'93I\'92ll just drink a little wine and then I\'92ll tell you.\'94 \'93How were you when you sighted them?\'94 \'93We were in a left echelon of V\'92s. Then we went into a left echelon of echelons and dove onto them with all four guns until you could have touched them before we rolled out of it. We crippled three others. The Fiats were hanging up in the sun. They didn\'92t come down until I was sightseeing all by myself.\'94 \'93Did your wingmen muck off?\'94 \'93No. It was my fault. I started watching the spectacle and they were gone. There isn\'92t any formation for watching spectacles. I guess they went on and picked up the echelon. I don\'92t know. Don\'92t ask me. And I\'92m tired. I was elated. But now I\'92m tired.\'94 \'93You\'92re sleepy you mean. You\'92re rum-dumb and sleepy.\'94 \'93I am simply tired,\'94 said Baldy. \'93A man in my position has the right to be tired. And if I become sleepy I have the right to be sleepy. Don\'92t I Santa Claus?\'94 he said to Al. \'93Yeah,\'94 said Al. \'93I guess you have the right to be sleepy. I\'92m even sleepy myself. Isn\'92t there going to be any crap game?\'94 \'93We got to get him out to Alcal\'e1 and we\'92ve got to get out there too,\'94 a flyer said. \'93Why? You lost money in the game?\'94 \'93A little,\'94 said Al. \'93ou want to try to pass for it once?\'94 the flyer asked him. \'93I\'92ll shoot a thousand,\'94 Al said. \'93I\'92ll fade you,\'94 the flyer said. \'93You guys don\'92t make much, do you?\'94 \'93No,\'94 said Al. \'93We don\'92t make much.\'94 He laid the thousand-peseta note down on the floor, rolled the dice between his palms so they clicked over and over, and shot them out on the floor with a snap. Two ones showed. \'93They\'92re still your dice,\'94 the flyer said, picking up the bill and looking at Al. \'93I don\'92t need them,\'94 said Al. He stood up. \'93Need any dough?\'94 the flyer asked him. Looking at him curiously. \'93Got no use for it,\'94 Al said. \'93We\'92ve got to get the hell out to Alcal\'e1,\'94 the flyer said. \'93We\'92ll have a game some night soon. We\'92ll get hold of Frank and the rest of them. We could get up a pretty good game. Can we give you a lift?\'94 \'93Yes. Want a ride?\'94 \'93No,\'94 Al said. \'93I\'92m walking. It\'92s just down the street.\'94 \'93Well, we\'92re going out to Alcal\'e1. Does anybody know the password for tonight?\'94 \'93Oh, the chauffeur will have it. He\'92ll have gone by and picked it up before dark.\'94 \'93Come on, Baldy. You drunken sleepy bum.\'94 \'93Not me,\'94 said Baldy. \'93I am a potential ace of the people\'92s army.\'94 \'93Takes ten to be an ace. Even if you count Italians. You\'92ve only got one, Baldy.\'94 \'93It wasn\'92t Italians,\'94 said Baldy. \'93It was Germans. And you didn\'92t see her when she was all hot like that inside. She was a raging inferno.\'94 \'93Carry him out,\'94 said a flyer. \'93He\'92s writing for that Meridian, Mississippi, paper again. Well, so long. Thanks for having us up in the room.\'94 They all shook hands and they were gone. I went to the head of the stairs with them. The elevator was no longer running and I watched them go down the stairs. One was on each side of Baldy and he was nodding his head slowly. He was really sleepy now. In their room the two I was working on the picture with were still working over the bad camera. It was delicate, eye-straining work and when I asked, \'93Do you think you\'92ll get her?\'94 the tall one said, \'93Yes. Sure. We have to. I make a piece now which was broken.\'94 \'93What was the party?\'94 asked the other. \'93We work always on this damn camera.\'94 \'93American flyers,\'94 I said. \'93And a fellow I used to know who\'92s in tanks.\'94 \'93Goot fun? I am sorry not to be there.\'94 \'93All right,\'94 I said. \'93Kind of funny.\'94 \'93You must get sleep. We must all be up early. We must be fresh for tomorrow.\'94 \'93How much more have you got on that camera?\'94 \'93There it goes again. Damn such shape springs.\'94 \'93Leave him alone. We finish it. Then we all sleep. What time you call us?\'94 \'93Five?\'94 \'93All right. As soon as is light.\'94 \'93Good night.\'94 \'93Salud. Get some sleep.\'94 \'93Salud,\'94 I said. \'93We\'92ve got to be closer tomorrow.\'94 \'93Yes,\'94 he said. \'93I have thought so too. Much closer. I am glad you know.\'94 Al was asleep in the big chair in the room with the light on his face. I put a blanket over him but he woke. \'93I\'92m going down.\'94 \'93Sleep here. I\'92ll set the alarm and call you.\'94 \'93Something might happen with the alarm,\'94 he said. \'93I better go down. I don\'92t want to get there late.\'94 \'93I\'92m sorry about the game.\'94 \'93They\'92d have broke me anyway,\'94 he said. \'93Those guys are poisonous with dice.\'94 \'93You had the dice there on that last play.\'94 \'93They\'92re poisonous fading you too. They\'92re strange guys too. I guess they don\'92t get overpaid. I guess if you are doing it for dough there isn\'92t enough dough to pay for doing it.\'94 \'93Want me to walk down with you?\'94 \'93No,\'94 he said, standing up, and buckling on the big web-belted Colt he had taken off when he came back after dinner to the game. \'93No, I feel fine now. I\'92ve got my perspective back again. All you need is a perspective.\'94 \'93I\'92d like to walk down.\'94 \'93No. Get some sleep. I\'92ll go down and I\'92ll get a good five hours\'92 sleep before it starts.\'94 \'93That early?\'94 \'93Yeah. You won\'92t have any light to film by. You might as well stay in bed.\'94 He took an envelope out of his leather coat and laid it on the table. \'93Take this stuff, will you, and send it to my brother in N.Y. His address is on the back of the envelope.\'94 \'93Sure. But I won\'92t have to send it.\'94 \'93No,\'94 he said. \'93I don\'92t think you will now. But there\'92s some pictures and stuff they\'92ll like to have. He\'92s got a nice wife. Want to see her picture?\'94 He took it out of his pocket. It was inside his identity book. It showed a pretty, dark girl standing by a rowboat on the shore of a lake. \'93Up in the Catskills,\'94 said Al. \'93Yeah. He\'92s got a nice wife. She\'92s a Jewish girl. Yes,\'94 he said. \'93Don\'92t let me get wet again. So long, kid. Take it easy. I tell you truly I feel O.K. now. And I didn\'92t feel good when I came out this afternoon.\'94 \'93Let me walk down.\'94 \'93No. You might have trouble coming back through the Plaza de Espana. Some of those guys are nervous at night. Good night. See you tomorrow night.\'94 \'93That\'92s the way to talk.\'94 Upstairs in the room above mine, Manolita and the Englishman were making quite a lot of noise. So she evidently hadn\'92t been arrested. \'93That\'92s right. That\'92s the way to talk,\'94 Al said. \'93Takes you sometimes three or four hours to get so you can do it though.\'94 He\'92d put the leather helmet on now with the raised padded ridge and his face looked dark and I noticed the dark hollows under his eyes. \'93See you tomorrow night at Chicote\'92s,\'94 I said. \'93That\'92s right,\'94 he said, and wouldn\'92t look me in the eye. \'93See you tomorrow night at Chicote\'92s.\'94 \'93What time?\'94 \'93Listen, that\'92s enough,\'94 he said. \'93Tomorrow night at Chicote\'92s. We don\'92t have to go into the time.\'94 And he went out. If you hadn\'92t known him pretty well and if you hadn\'92t seen the terrain where he was going to attack tomorrow, you would have thought he was very angry about something. I guess somewhere inside of himself he was angry, very angry. You get angry about a lot of things and you, yourself, dying uselessly is one of them. But then I guess angry is about the best way that you can be when you attack. Under the Ridge IN THE HEAT OF THE DAY WITH THE DUST blowing, we came back, dry-mouthed, nose-clogged and heavy-loaded, down out of the battle to the long ridge above the river where the Spanish troops lay in reserve. I sat down with my back against the shallow trench, my shoulders and the back of my head against the earth, clear now from even stray bullets, and looked at what lay below us in the hollow. There was the tank reserve, the tanks covered with branches chopped from olive trees. To their left were the staff cars, mud-daubed and branch-covered, and between the two a long line of men carrying stretchers wound down through the gap to where, on the flat at the foot of the ridge, ambulances were loading. Commissary mules loaded with sacks of bread and kegs of wine, and a train of ammunition mules, led by their drivers, were coming up the gap in the ridge, and men with empty stretchers were walking slowly up the trail with the mules. To the right, below the curve of the ridge, I could see the entrance to the cave where the brigade staff was working, and their signaling wires ran out of the top of the cave and curved on over the ridge in the shelter of which we lay. Motorcyclists in leather suits and helmets came up and down the cut on their cycles or, where it was too steep, walking them, and leaving them beside the cut, walked over to the entrance to the cave and ducked inside. As I watched, a big Hungarian cyclist that I knew came out of the cave, tucked some papers in his leather wallet, walked over to his motorcycle and, pushing it up through the stream of mules and stretcher-bearers, threw a leg over the saddle and roared on over the ridge, his machine churning a storm of dust. Below, across the flat where the ambulances were coming and going, was the green foliage that marked the line of the river. There was a large house with a red tile roof and there was a gray stone mill, and from the trees around the big house beyond the river came the flashes of our guns. They were firing straight at us and there were the twin flashes, then the throaty, short bung-bung of the three-inch pieces and then the rising cry of the shells coming toward us and going on over our heads. As always, we were short of artillery. There were only four batteries down there, when there should have been forty, and they were firing only two guns at a time. The attack had failed before we came down. \'93Are you Russians?\'94 a Spanish soldier asked me. \'93No, Americans,\'94 I said. \'93Have you any water?\'94 \'93Yes, comrade.\'94 He handed over a pigskin bag. These troops in reserve were soldiers only in name and from the fact that they were in uniform. They were not intended to be used in the attack, and they sprawled along this line under the crest of the ridge, huddled in groups, eating, drinking and talking, or simply sitting dumbly, waiting. The attack was being made by an International Brigade. We both drank. The water tasted of asphalt and pig bristles. \'93Wine is better,\'94 the soldier said. \'93I will get wine.\'94 \'93Yes. But for the thirst, water.\'94 \'93There is no thirst like the thirst of battle. Even here, in reserve, I have much thirst.\'94 \'93That is fear,\'94 said another soldier. \'93Thirst is fear.\'94 \'93No,\'94 said another. \'93With fear there is thirst, always. But in battle there is much thirst even when there is no fear.\'94 \'93There is always fear in battle,\'94 said the first soldier. \'93For you,\'94 said the second soldier. \'93It is normal,\'94 the first soldier said. \'93For you.\'94 \'93Shut your dirty mouth,\'94 said the first soldier. \'93I am simply a man who tells the truth.\'94 It was a bright April day and the wind was blowing wildly so that each mule that came up the gap raised a cloud of dust, and the two men at the ends of a stretcher each raised a cloud of dust that blew together and made one, and below, across the flat, long streams of dust moved out from the ambulances and blew away in the wind. I felt quite sure I was not going to be killed on that day now, since we had done our work well in the morning, and twice during the early part of the attack we should have been killed and were not; and this had given me confidence. The first time had been when we had gone up with the tanks and picked a place from which to film the attack. Later I had a sudden distrust for the place and we had moved the cameras about two hundred yards to the left. Just before leaving, I had marked the place in quite the oldest way there is of marking a place, and within ten minutes a six-inch shell had lit on the exact place where I had been and there was no trace of any human being ever having been there. Instead, there was a large and clearly blasted hole in the earth. Then, two hours later, a Polish officer, recently detached from the batalion and attached to the staff, had offered to show us the positions the Poles had just captured and, coming from under the lee of a fold of hill, we had walked into machine-gun fire that we had to crawl out from under with our chins tight to the ground and dust in our noses, and at the same time made the sad discovery that the Poles had captured no positions at all that day but were a little further back than the place they had started from. And now, lying in the shelter of the trench, I was wet with sweat, hungry and thirsty and hollow inside from the now-finished danger of the attack. \'93You are sure you are not Russians?\'94 asked a soldier. \'93There are Russians here today.\'94 \'93Yes. But we are not Russians.\'94 \'93You have the face of a Russian.\'94 \'93No,\'94 I said. \'93You are wrong, comrade. I have quite a funny face but it is not the face of a Russian.\'94 \'93He has the face of a Russian,\'94 pointing at the other one of us who was working on a camera. \'93Perhaps. But still he is not Russian. Where you from?\'94 \'93Extremadura,\'94 he said proudly. \'93Are there any Russians in Extremadura?\'94 I asked. \'93No,\'94 he told me, even more proudly. \'93There are no Russians in Extremadura, and there are no Extremadurans in Russia.\'94 \'93What are your politics?\'94 \'93I hate all foreigners,\'94 he said. \'93That\'92s a broad political program.\'94 \'93I hate the Moors, the English, the French, the Italians, the Germans, the North Americans and the Russians.\'94 \'93You hate them in that order?\'94 \'93Yes. But perhaps I hate the Russians the most.\'94 \'93Man, you have very interesting ideas,\'94 I said. \'93Are you a fascist?\'94 \'93No. I am an Extremaduran and I hate foreigners.\'94 \'93He has very rare ideas,\'94 said another soldier. \'93Do not give him too much importance. Me, I like foreigners. I am from Valencia. Take another cup of wine, please.\'94 I reached up and took the cup, the other wine still brassy in my mouth. I looked at the Extremaduran. He was tall and thin. His face was haggard and unshaven, and his cheeks were sunken. He stood straight up in his rage, his blanket cape around his shoulders. \'93Keep your head down,\'94 I told him. \'93There are many lost bullets coming over.\'94 \'93I have no fear of bullets and I hate all foreigners,\'94 he said fiercely. \'93You don\'92t have to fear bullets,\'94 I said, \'93but you should avoid them when you are in reserve. It is not intelligent to be wounded when it can be avoided.\'94 \'93I am not afraid of anything,\'94 the Extremaduran said. \'93You are very lucky, comrade.\'94 \'93It\'92s true,\'94 the other, with the wine cup, said. \'93He has no fear, not even of the aviones.\'94 \'93He is crazy,\'94 another soldier said. \'93Everyone fears planes. They kill little but make much fear.\'94 \'93I have no fear. Neither of planes nor of nothing,\'94 the Extremaduran said. \'93And I hate every foreigner alive.\'94 Down the gap, walking beside two stretcher-bearers and seeming to pay no attention at all to where he was, came a tall man in International Brigade uniform with a blanket rolled over his shoulder and tied at his waist. His head was held high and he looked like a man walking in his sleep. He was middle-aged. He was not carrying a rifle and, from where I lay, he did not look wounded. I watched him walking alone down out of the war. Before he came to the staff cars he turned to the left and his head still held high in that strange way, he walked over the edge of the ridge and out of sight. The one who was with me, busy changing film in the hand cameras, had not noticed him. A single shell came in over the ridge and fountained in the dirt and black smoke just short of the tank reserve. Someone put his head out of the cave where brigade headquarters was and then disappeared inside. I thought it looked like a good place to go, but knew they would all be furious in there because the attack was a failure, and I did not want to face them. If an operation was successful they were happy to have motion pictures of it. But if it was a failure everyone was in such a rage there was always a chance of being sent back under arrest. \'93They may shell us now,\'94 I said. \'93That makes no difference to me,\'94 said the Extremaduran. I was beginning to be a little tired of the Extremaduran. \'93Have you any more wine to spare?\'94 I asked. My mouth was still dry. \'93Yes, man. There are gallons of it,\'94 the friendly soldier said. He was short, big-fisted and very dirty, with a stubble of beard about the same length as the hair on his cropped head. \'93Do you think they will shell us now?\'94 \'93They should,\'94 I said. \'93But in this war you can never tell.\'94 \'93What is the matter with this war?\'94 asked the Extremaduran angrily. \'93Don\'92t you like this war?\'94 \'93Shut up!\'94 said the friendly soldier. \'93I command here, and these comrades are our guests.\'94 \'93Then let him not talk against our war,\'94 said the Extremaduran. \'93No foreigners shall come here and talk against our war.\'94 \'93What town are you from, comrade?\'94 I asked the Extremaduran. \'93Badajoz,\'94 he said. \'93I am from Badajoz. In Badajoz, we have been sacked and pillaged and our women violated by the English, the French and now the Moors. What the Moors have done now is no worse than what the English did under Wellington. You should read history. My great-grandmother was killed by the English. The house where my family lived was burned by the English.\'94 \'93I regret it,\'94 I said. \'93Why do you hate the North Americans?\'94 \'93My father was killed by the North Americans in Cuba while he was there as a conscript.\'94 \'93I am sorry for that, too. Truly sorry. Believe me. And why do you hate the Russians?\'94 \'93Because they are the representatives of tyranny and I hate their faces. You have the face of a Russian.\'94 \'93Maybe we better get out of here,\'94 I said to the one who was with me and who did not speak Spanish. \'93It seems I have the face of a Russian and it\'92s getting me into trouble.\'94 \'93I\'92m going to sleep,\'94 he said. \'93This is a good place. Don\'92t talk so much and you won\'92t get into trouble.\'94 \'93There\'92s a comrade here that doesn\'92t like me. I think he\'92s an anarchist.\'94 \'93Well, watch out he doesn\'92t shoot you, then. I\'92m going to sleep.\'94 Just then two men in leather coats, one short and stocky, the other of medium height, both with civilian caps, flat, high-cheekboned faces, wooden-holstered Mauser pistols strapped to their legs, came out of the gap and headed toward us. The taller of them spoke to me in French. \'93Have you seen a French comrade pass through here?\'94 he asked. \'93A comrade with a blanket tied around his shoulders in the form of a bandoleer? A comrade of about forty-five or fifty years old? Have you seen such a comrade going in the direction away from the front?\'94 \'93No,\'94 I said. \'93I have not seen such a comrade.\'94 He looked at me a moment and I noticed his eyes were a grayish-yellow and that they did not blink at all. \'93Thank you, comrade,\'94 he said, in his odd French, and then spoke rapidly to the other man with him in a language I did not understand. They went off and climbed the highest part of the ridge, from where they could see down all the gullies. \'93There is the true face of Russians,\'94 the Extremaduran said. \'93Shut up!\'94 I said. I was watching the two men in the leather coats. They were standing there, under considerable fire, looking carefully over all the broken country below the ridge and toward the river. Suddenly one of them saw what he was looking for, and pointed. Then the two started to run like hunting dogs, one straight down over the ridge, the other at an angle as though to cut someone off. Before the second one went over the crest I could see him drawing his pistol and holding it ahead of him as he ran. \'93And how do you like that?\'94 asked the Extremaduran. \'93No better than you,\'94 I said. Over the crest of the parallel ridge I heard the Mausers\'92 jerky barking. They kept it up for more than a dozen shots. They must have opened fire at too long a range. After all the burst of shooting there was a pause and then a single shot. The Extremaduran looked at me sullenly and said nothing. I thought it would be simpler if the shelling started. But it did not start. The two in the leather coats and civilian caps came back over the ridge, walking together, and then down to the gap, walking downhill with that odd bent-kneed way of the two-legged animal coming down a steep slope. They turned up the gap as a tank came whirring and clanking down and moved to one side to let it pass. The tanks had failed again that day, and the drivers coming down from the lines in their leather helmets, the tank turrets open now as they came into the shelter of the ridge, had the straight-ahead stare of football players who have been removed from a game for yellowness. The two flat-faced men in the leather coats stood by us on the ridge to let the tank pass. \'93Did you find the comrade you were looking for?\'94 I asked the taller one of them in French. \'93Yes, comrade. Thank you,\'94 he said and looked me over very carefully. \'93What does he say?\'94 the Extremaduran asked. \'93He says they found the comrade they were looking for,\'94 I told him. The Extremaduran said nothing. We had been all that morning in the place the middle-aged Frenchman had walked out of. We had been there in the dust, the smoke, the noise, the receiving of wounds, the death, the fear of death, the bravery, the cowardice, the insanity and failure of an unsuccessful attack. We had been there on that plowed field men could not cross and live. You dropped and lay flat; making a mound to shield your head; working your chin into the dirt; waiting for the order to go up that slope no man could go up and live. We had been with those who lay there waiting for the tanks that did not come; waiting under the inrushing shriek and roaring crash of the shelling; the metal and the earth thrown like clods from a dirt fountain; and overhead the cracking, whispering fire like a curtain. We knew how those felt, waiting. They were as far forward as they could get. And men could not move further and live, when the order came to move ahead. We had been there all morning in the place the middle-aged Frenchman had come walking away from. I understood how a man might suddenly, seeing clearly the stupidity of dying in an unsuccessful attack; or suddenly seeing it clearly, as you can see clearly and justly before you die; seeing its hopelessness, seeing its idiocy, seeing how it really was, simply get back and walk away from it as the Frenchman had done. He could walk out of it not from cowardice, but simply from seeing too clearly; knowing suddenly that he had to leave it; knowing there was no other thing to do. The Frenchman had come walking out of the attack with great dignity and I understood him as a man. But, as a soldier, these other men who policed the battle had hunted him down, and the death he had walked away from had found him when he was just over the ridge, clear of the bullets and the shelling, and walking toward the river. \'93And that,\'94 the Extremaduran said to me, nodding toward the battle police. \'93Is war,\'94 I said. \'93In war, it is necessary to have discipline.\'94 \'93And to live under that sort of discipline we should die?\'94 \'93Without discipline everyone will die anyway.\'94 \'93There is one kind of discipline and another kind of discipline,\'94 the Extremaduran said. \'93Listen to me. In February we were here where we are now and the fascists attacked. They drove us from the hills that you Internationals tried to take today and that you could not take. We fell back to here; to this ridge. Internationals came up and took the line ahead of us.\'94 \'93I know that,\'94 I said. \'93But you do not know this,\'94 he went on angrily. \'93There was a boy from my province who became frightened during the bombardment, and he shot himself in the hand so that he could leave the line because he was afraid.\'94 The other soldiers were all listening now. Several nodded. \'93Such people have their wounds dressed and are returned at once to the line,\'94 the Extremaduran went on. \'93It is just.\'94 \'93Yes,\'94 I said. \'93That is as it should be.\'94 \'93That is as it should be,\'94 said the Extremaduran. \'93But this boy shot himself so badly that the bone was all smashed and there surged up an infection and his hand was amputated.\'94 Several soldiers nodded. \'93Go on, tell him the rest,\'94 said one. \'93It might be better not to speak of it,\'94 said the cropped-headed, bristly-faced man who said he was in command. \'93It is my duty to speak,\'94 the Extremaduran said. The one in command shrugged his shoulders. \'93I did not like it either,\'94 he said. \'93Go on, then. But I do not like to hear it spoken of either.\'94 \'93This boy remained in the hospital in the valley since February,\'94 the Extremaduran said. \'93Some of us have seen him in the hospital. All say he was well liked in the hospital and made himself as useful as a man with one hand can be useful. Never was he under arrest. Never was there anything to prepare him.\'94 The man in command handed me the cup of wine again without saying anything. They were all listening; as men who cannot read or write listen to a story. \'93Yesterday, at the close of day, before we knew there was to be an attack. Yesterday, before the sun set, when we thought today was to be as any other day, they brought him up the trail in the gap there from the flat. We were cooking the evening meal and they brought him up. There were only four of them. Him, the boy Paco, those two you have just seen in the leather coats and the caps, and an officer from the brigade. We saw the four of them climbing together up the gap, and we saw Pace\'92s hands were not tied, nor was he bound in any way. \'93When we saw him we all crowded around and said, \'91Hello, Paco. How are you, Paco? How is everything, Paco, old boy, old Paco?\'92 \'93Then he said, \'91Everything\'92s all right. Everything is good except this\'92\'97 and showed us the stump. \'93Paco said, \'91That was a cowardly and foolish thing. I am sorry that I did that thing. But I try to be useful with one hand. I will do what I can with one hand for the Cause.\'92\'94 \'93Yes,\'94 interrupted a soldier. \'93He said that. I heard him say that.\'94 \'93We spoke with him,\'94 the Extremaduran said. \'93And he spoke with us. When such people with the leather coats and the pistols come it is always a bad omen in a war, as is the arrival of people with map cases and field glasses. Still we thought they had brought him for a visit, and all of us who had not been to the hospital were happy to see him, and as I say, it was the hour of the evening meal and the evening was clear and warm.\'94 \'93This wind only rose during the night,\'94 a soldier said. \'93Then,\'94 the Extremaduran went on somberly, \'93one of them said to the officer in Spanish, \'91Where is the place?\'92 \'93\'91Where is the place this Paco was wounded?\'92 asked the officer.\'94 \'93I answered him,\'94 said the man in command. \'93I showed the place. It is a little further down than where you are.\'94 \'93Here is the place,\'94 said a soldier. He pointed, and I could see it was the place. It showed clearly that it was the place. \'93Then one of them led Paco by the arm to the place and held him there by the arm while the other spoke in Spanish. He spoke in Spanish, making many mistakes in the language. At first we wanted to laugh, and Paco started to smile. I could not understand all the speech, but it was that Paco must be punished as an example, in order that there would be no more self-inflicted wounds, and that all others would be punished in the same way. \'93Then, while the one held Paco by the arm; Paco, looking very ashamed to be spoken of this way when he was already ashamed and sorry; the other took his pistol out and shot Paco in the back of the head without any word to Paco. Nor any word more.\'94 The soldiers all nodded. \'93It was thus,\'94 said one. \'93You can see the place. He fell with his mouth there. You can see it.\'94 I had seen the place clearly enough from where I lay. \'93He had no warning and no chance to prepare himself,\'94 the one in command said. \'93It was very brutal.\'94 \'93It is for this that I now hate Russians as well as all other foreigners,\'94 said the Extremaduran. \'93We can give ourselves no illusions about foreigners. If you are a foreigner, I am sorry. But for myself, now, I can make no exceptions. You have eaten bread and drunk wine with us. Now I think you should go.\'94 \'93Do not speak in that way,\'94 the man in command said to the Extremaduran. \'93It is necessary to be formal.\'94 \'93I think we had better go,\'94 I said. \'93You are not angry?\'94 the man in command said. \'93You can stay in this shelter as long as you wish. Are you thirsty? Do you wish more wine?\'94 \'93Thank you very much,\'94 I said. \'93I think we had better go.\'94 \'93You understand my hatred?\'94 asked the Extremaduran. \'93I understand your hatred,\'94 I said. \'93Good,\'94 he said and put out his hand. \'93I do not refuse to shake hands. And that you, personally, have much luck.\'94 \'93Equally to you,\'94 I said. \'93Personally, and as a Spaniard.\'94 I woke the one who took the pictures and we started down the ridge toward brigade headquarters. The tanks were all coming back now and you could hardly hear yourself talk for the noise. \'93Were you talking all that time?\'94 \'93Listening.\'94 \'93Hear anything interesting?\'94 \'93Plenty.\'94 \'93What do you want to do now?\'94 \'93Get back to Madrid.\'94 \'93We should see the general.\'94 \'93Yes,\'94 I said. \'93We must.\'94 The general was coldly furious. He had been ordered to make the attack as a surprise with one brigade only, bringing everything up before daylight. It should have been made by at least a division. He had used three battalions and held one in reserve. The French tank commander had got drunk to be brave for the attack and finally was too drunk to function. He was to be shot when he sobered up. The tanks had not come up in time and finally had refused to advance, and two of the battalions had failed to attain their objectives. The third had taken theirs, but it formed an untenable salient. The only real result had been a few prisoners, and these had been confided to the tank men to bring back and the tank men had killed them. The general had only failure to show, and they had killed his prisoners. \'93What can I write on it?\'94 I asked. \'93Nothing that is not in the official communiqu\'e9. Have you any whisky in that long flask?\'94 \'93Yes.\'94 He took a drink and licked his lips carefully. He had once been a captain of Hungarian Hussars, and he had once captured a gold train in Siberia when he was a leader of irregular cavalry with the Red Army and held it all one winter when the thermometer went down to forty below zero. We were good friends and he loved whisky, and he is now dead. \'93Get out of here now,\'94 he said. \'93Have you transport?\'94 \'93Yes.\'94 \'93Did you get any pictures?\'94 \'93Some. The tanks.\'94 \'93The tanks,\'94 he said bitterly. \'93The swine. The cowards. Watch out you don\'92t get killed,\'94 he said. \'93You are supposed to be a writer.\'94 \'93I can\'92t write now.\'94 \'93Write it afterwards. You can write it all afterwards. And don\'92t get killed. Especially, don\'92t get killed. Now, get out of here.\'94 He could not take his own advice because he was killed two months later. But the oddest thing about that day was how marvelously the pictures we took of the tanks came out. On the screen they advanced over the hill irresistibly, mounting the crests like great ships, to crawl clanking on toward the illusion of victory we screened. The nearest any man was to victory that day was probably the Frenchman who came, with his head held high, walking out of the battle. But his victory only lasted until he had walked halfway down the ridge. We saw him lying stretched out there on the slope of the ridge, still wearing his blanket, as we came walking down the cut to get into the staff car that would take us to Madrid. Nobody Ever Dies THE HOUSE WAS BUILT OF ROSE-COLORED plaster that had peeled and faded with the dampness and from its porch you could see the sea, very blue, at the end of the street. There were laurel trees along the sidewalk that grew high enough to shade the upper porch and in the shade it was cool. A mockingbird hung in a wicker cage at a corner of the porch, and it was not singing now, nor even chirping, because a young man of about twenty-eight, thin, dark, with bluish circles under his eyes and a stubble of beard, had just taken off a sweater that he wore and spread it over the cage. The young man was standing now, his mouth slightly open, listening. Someone was trying the locked and bolted front door. As he listened he heard the wind in the laurels close beside the porch, the horn of a taxi coming along the street and the voices of the children playing in a vacant lot. Then he heard a key turn again in the lock of the front door. He heard it unlock the door, heard the door pulled against the bolt, and then the lock being turned again. At the same time he heard the sound of a bat against a baseball and shrill shouting in Spanish from the vacant lot. He stood there, moistening his lips, and listened while someone tried the back door. The young man, who was named Enrique, took off his shoes and, putting them down carefully, moved softly along the tiling of the porch until he could look down at the back door. There was no one there. He slipped back to the front of the house and, keeping out of sight, looked down the street. A Negro in a narrow-brimmed flat-topped straw hat and a gray alpaca coat and black trousers was walking along the sidewalk under the laurel trees. Enrique watched, but there was no one else. He stood there for some time watching and listening, then he took his sweater off the bird cage and put it on. He had been sweating heavily while he had been listening and now he was cold in the shade and the cool northeast wind. The sweater covered a leather shoulder holster, the leather ringed and saltwhitened with perspiration, that he wore with a forty-five-caliber Colt pistol which, by its constant pressure, had given him a boil a little below his armpit. He lay down on a canvas cot now close to the wall of the house. He was still listening. The bird chirped and hopped about the cage and the young man looked up at it. Then he got up and unhooked the door of the cage and opened it. The bird cocked his head at the open door and drew it back, then jerked his head forward again, his bill pointing at an angle. \'93Go on,\'94 the young man said softly. \'93It\'92s not a trick.\'94 He put his hand into the cage and the bird flew against the back, fluttering against the withes. \'93You\'92re silly,\'94 the young man said. He took his hand out of the cage. \'93I\'92ll leave it open.\'94 He lay face down on the cot, his chin on his folded arms, and he was still listening. He heard the bird fly out of the cage and then he heard him sing in one of the laurel trees. \'93It was foolish to keep the bird if the house is supposed to be empty,\'94 he thought. \'93It is just such foolishness that makes all the trouble. How can I blame others when I am that stupid?\'94 In the vacant lot the boys were still playing baseball and it was quite cool now. The young man unbuckled the leather shoulder holster and laid the big pistol by his leg. Then he went to sleep. When he woke it was dark and the street light on the comer shone through the leaves of the laurels. He stood up and walked to the front of the house and, keeping in the shadow and the shelter of the wall, looked up and down the street. A man in a narrow-brimmed, flat-topped straw hat stood under a tree on the comer. Enrique could not see the color of his coat or trousers, but he was a Negro. Enrique went quickly to the back of the porch but there was no light there except that which shone on the weedy field from the back windows of the next two houses. There could be any number of people in the back. He knew that, since he could no longer really hear as he had in the afternoon, because a radio was going in the second house away. Suddenly there came the mechanical crescendo of a siren and the young man felt a prickling wave go over his scalp. It came as suddenly as a person blushes, it felt like prickly heat, and it was gone as quickly as it came. The siren was on the radio; it was part of an advertisement, and the announcer\'92s voice followed, \'93Gavis tooth paste. Unaltering, insuperable, the best.\'94 Enrique smiled in the dark. It was time someone should be coming now. After the siren on the recorded announcements came a crying baby which the announcer said would be satisfied with Malta-Malta, and then there was a motor horn and a customer who demanded green gas. \'93Don\'92t tell me any stories. I asked for green gas. More economical, more mileage. The best.\'94 Enrique knew all the advertisements by heart. They had not changed in the fifteen months that he had been away at war; they must still be using the same discs in the broadcasting station, and still the siren had deceived him and given him that thin, quick prickle across the scalp that was as definite a reaction to danger as a bird dog stiffening to the warm scent of quail. He had not had that prickle when he started. Danger and the fear of it had once made him feel empty in his stomach. They had made him feel weak as you are weak with a fever, and he had known the inability to move; when you must force movement forward by legs that feel as dead as though they were asleep. That was all gone now, and he did without difficulty whatever he should do. The prickling was all that remained of the vast capacity for fear some brave men start with. It was his only remaining reaction to danger except for the perspiring which, he knew, he would always have, and now it served as a warning and nothing more. As he stood, looking out at the tree where the man with the straw hat sat now, on the curb, a stone fell on the tiled floor of the porch. Enrique looked for it against the wall but did not find it. He passed his hands under the cot but it was not there. As he knelt, another pebble fell on the tiled floor, bounced and rolled into the corner toward the side of the house and into the street. Enrique picked it up. It was a smooth-feeling ordinary pebble and he put it in his pocket and went inside the house and down the stairs to the back door. He stood to one side of the door and took the Colt out of the holster and held it, heavy in his right hand. \'93The victory,\'94 he said very quietly in Spanish, his mouth disdaining the word, and shifted softly on his bare feet to the other side of the door. \'93To those who earn it,\'94 someone said outside the door. It was a woman\'92s voice, giving the second half of the password, and it spoke quickly and unsteadily. Enrique drew back the double bolt on the door and opened it with his left hand, the Colt still in his right. There was a girl there in the dark, holding a basket. She wore a handkerchief over her head. \'93Hello,\'94 he said and shut the door and bolted it. He could hear her breathing in the dark. He took the basket from her and patted her shoulder. \'93Enrique,\'94 she said, and he could not see the way her eyes were shining nor the look on her face. \'93Come upstairs,\'94 he said. \'93There is someone watching the front of the house. Did he see you?\'94 \'93No,\'94 she said. \'93I came across the vacant lot.\'94 \'93I will show him to you. Come up to the porch.\'94 They went up the stairs, Enrique carrying the basket. He put it down by the bed and walked to the edge of the porch and looked. The Negro who wore the narrow-brimmed flat-topped straw hat was gone. \'93So,\'94 Enrique said quietly. \'93So what?\'94 asked the girl, holding his arm now and looking out. \'93So he is gone. What is there to eat?\'94 \'93I am sorry you were here alone all day\'94 she said. \'93It was so stupid that I had to wait until it was dark to come. I have wanted to come all day.\'94 \'93It was stupid to be here at all. They brought me here from the boat before daylight and left me, with a password and nothing to eat, in a house that is watched. You cannot eat a password. I should not be put in a house that is being watched for other reasons. It is very Cuban. But at least, in the old days we ate. How are you, Maria?\'94 In the dark she kissed him, hard, on the mouth. He felt the tight-pressed fullness of her lips and the way her body shivered against his and then came the stab of white pain in the small of his back. \'93Ayee! Be careful.\'94 \'93What is it?\'94 \'93The back.\'94 \'93What of the back? Is it a wound?\'94 \'93You should see it,\'94 he said. \'93Can I see it now?\'94 \'93Afterwards. We must eat and get out of here. What have they stored here?\'94 \'93Too many things. Things left over from the failure of April. Things kept for the future.\'94 \'93The long-distant future,\'94 he said. \'93Did they know it was watched?\'94 \'93I am sure not.\'94 \'93What is there?\'94 \'93There are some rifles in cases. There are boxes of ammunition.\'94 \'93Everything should be moved tonight.\'94 His mouth was full. \'93There will be years of work before we will need this again.\'94 \'93Do you like the escabeche?\'94 \'93It\'92s very good; sit here close.\'94 \'93Enrique,\'94 she said, sitting tight against him. She put a hand on his thigh and with the other she stroked the back of his neck. \'93My Enrique.\'94 \'93Touch me carefully,\'94 he said, eating. \'93The back is bad.\'94 \'93Are you happy to be back from the war?\'94 \'93I have not thought about it,\'94 he said. \'93Enrique, how is Chucho?\'94 \'93Dead at L\'e9rida.\'94 \'93Felipe?\'94 \'93Dead. Also at L\'e9rida.\'94 \'93And Arturo?\'94 \'93Dead at Teruel.\'94 \'93And Vicente?\'94 she asked in a flat voice, her two hands folded on his thigh now. \'93Dead. At the attack across the road at Celadas.\'94 \'93Vicente is my brother.\'94 She sat stiff and alone now, her hands away from him. \'93I know,\'94 said Enrique. He went on eating. \'93He is my only brother.\'94 \'93I thought you knew,\'94 said Enrique. \'93I did not know and he is my brother.\'94 \'93I am sorry, Maria. I should have said it another way.\'94 \'93And he is dead? You know he is dead? It is not just a report?\'94 \'93Listen. Rogello, Basilio, Esteban, Fel and I are alive. The others are dead.\'94 \'93All?\'94 \'93All,\'94 said Enrique. \'93I cannot stand it,\'94 said Maria. \'93Please, I cannot stand it.\'94 \'93It does no good to discuss it. They are dead.\'94 \'93But it is not only that Vicente is my brother. I can give up my brother. It is the flower of our party.\'94 \'93Yes. The flower of the party.\'94 \'93It is not worth it. It has destroyed the best.\'94 \'93Yes. It is worth it.\'94 \'93How can you say that? That is criminal.\'94 \'93No. It is worth it.\'94 She was crying now and Enrique went on eating. \'93Don\'92t cry,\'94 he said. \'93The thing to do is to think how we can work to take their places.\'94 \'93But he is my brother. Don\'92 you uderstand? My brother.\'94 \'93We are all brothers. Some are dead and others still live. They send us home now, so there will be some left. Otherwise there would be none. Now we must work.\'94 \'93But why were they all killed?\'94 \'93We were with an attack division. You are either killed or wounded. We others have been wounded.\'94 \'93How was Vicente killed?\'94 \'93He was crossing the road when he was struck by machine-gun fire from a farmhouse on the right. The road was enfiladed from that house.\'94 \'93Were you there?\'94 \'93Yes. I had the first company. We were on his right. We took the house but it took some time. They had three machine guns there. Two in the house, one in the stable. It was difficult to approach. We had to get a tank up to put fire on the window before we could rush the last gun. I lost eight men. It was too many.\'94 \'93And where was that?\'94 \'93Celadas.\'94 \'93I never heard of it.\'94 \'93No,\'94 said Enrique. \'93The operation was not a success. No one will ever hear of it. That was where Vicente and Ignacio were killed.\'94 \'93And you say such things are justified? That men like that should die in failures in a foreign country?\'94 \'93There are no foreign countries, Maria, where people speak Spanish. Where you die does not matter, if you die for liberty. Anyway, the thing to do is live and not to die.\'94 \'93But think of who have died\'97away from here\'97and in failures.\'94 \'93They did not go to die. They went to fight. The dying is an accident.\'94 \'93But the failures. My brother is dead in a failure. Chucho in a failure. Ignacio in a failure.\'94 \'93They are just a part. Some things we had to do were impossible. Many that looked impossible we did. But sometimes the people on your flank would not attack. Sometimes there was not enough artillery. Sometimes we were ordered to do things not in sufficient force\'97as at Celadas. Those make the failures. But in the end, it was not a failure.\'94 She did not answer and he finished eating. The wind was fresh now in the trees and it was cold on the porch. He put the dishes back in the basket and wiped his mouth on the napkin. He wiped his hands carefully and then put his arm around the girl. She was crying. \'93Don\'92t cry, Maria,\'94 he said. \'93What has happened has happened. We must think of what there is to do. There is much to do.\'94 She said nothing and he could see her face in the light from the street lamp looking straight ahead. \'93We must check all romanticism. This place is an example of that romanticism. We must stop terrorism. We must proceed so that we will never again fall into revolutionary adventurism.\'94 The girl still said nothing and he looked at her face that he had thought of all the months when he had thought of anything except his work. \'93You talk like a book,\'94 she said. \'93Not like a human being.\'94 \'93I am sorry,\'94 he said. \'93It is only lessons I have learned. It is things I know must be done. To me it is more real than anything.\'94 \'93All that is real to me are the dead,\'94 she said. \'93We honor them. But they are not important.\'94 \'93You talk like a book again,\'94 she said angrily. \'93Your heart is a book.\'94 \'93I am sorry, Maria. I thought you would understand.\'94 \'93All I understand is the dead,\'94 she said. He knew this was not true because she had not seen them dead as he had in the rain in the olive groves of the Jarama, in the heat in the smashed houses of Quijorna, and in the snow at Teruel. But he knew that she blamed him for being alive when Vicente was dead and suddenly\'97in the small and unconditioned human part of him which was left, and which he did not realize was still there\'97he was hurt deeply. \'93There was a bird,\'94 he said. \'93A mockingbird in a cage.\'94 \'93Yes.\'94 \'93I let it go.\'94 \'93Aren\'92t you kind!\'94 she said scornfully. \'93Are soldiers all sentimental?\'94 \'93I am a good soldier.\'94 \'93I believe it. You talk like one. What kind of soldier was my brother?\'94 \'93Very good. Gayer than me. I was not gay. It is a lack.\'94 \'93But you practice self-criticism and you talk like a book.\'94 \'93It would be better if I were gayer,\'94 he said. \'93I could never learn it.\'94 \'93And the gay ones are all dead.\'94 \'93No,\'94 he said. \'93Basilio is gay.\'94 \'93Then he\'92ll die,\'94 she said. \'93Maria? Do not talk like that. You talk like a defeatist.\'94 \'93You talk like a book,\'94 she told him. \'93Please do not touch me. You have a dry heart and I hate you.\'94 Now he was hurt again, he who had thought that his heart was dry, and that nothing could hurt ever again except the pain, and sitting on the bed he leaned forward. \'93Pull up my sweater,\'94 he said. \'93I don\'92t want to.\'94 He pulled up the back and leaned over. \'93Maria, look there,\'94 he said. \'93That is not from a book.\'94 \'93I cannot see,\'94 she said. \'93I do not want to see.\'94 \'93Put your hand across the lower back.\'94 He felt her fingers touch that huge sunken place a baseball could have been pushed through, that grotesque scar from the wound the surgeon had pushed his rubber-gloved fist through in cleaning, which had run from one side of the small of his back through to the other. He felt her touch it and he shrank quickly inside. Then she was holding him tight and kissing him, her lips an island in the sudden white sea of pain that came in a shining, unbearable, rising, blinding wave and swept him clean. The lips there, still there; then overwhelmed, and the pain gone as he sat, alone, wet with sweat and Maria crying and saying, \'93Oh, Enrique. Forgive me. Please forgive me.\'94 \'93It is all right,\'94 Enrique said. \'93There is nothing to forgive. But it was not out of any book.\'94 \'93But does it hurt always?\'94 \'93Only when I am touched or jarred.\'94 \'93And the spinal cord?\'94 \'93It was touched a very little. Also the kidneys, but they are all right. The shell fragment went in one side and out the other. There are other wounds lower down and on my legs.\'94 \'93Enrique, please forgive me.\'94 \'93There is nothing to forgive. But it is not nice that I cannot make love and I am sorry that I am not gay.\'94 \'93We can make love after it is well.\'94 \'93Yes.\'94 \'93And it will be well.\'94 \'93Yes.\'94 \'93And I will take care of you.\'94 \'93No. I will take care of you. I do not mind this thing at all. Only the pain of touching or jarring. It does not bother me. Now we must work. We must leave this place now. Everything that is here must be moved tonight. It must be stored in a new and unsuspected place and in one where it will not deteriorate. It will be a long time before we will need it. There is much to be done before we will ever reach that stage again. Many must be educated. These cartridges may no longer serve by then. This climate ruins the primers. And we must go now. I am a fool to have stayed here this long and the fool who put me here will answer to the committee.\'94 \'93I am to take you there tonight. They thought this house was safe for you to stay today.\'94 \'93This house is a folly.\'94 \'93We will go now.\'94 \'93We should have gone before.\'94 \'93Kiss me, Enrique.\'94 \'93We\'92ll do it very carefully,\'94 he said. Then, in the dark on the bed, holding himself carefully, his eyes closed, their lips against each other, the happiness there with no pain, the being home suddenly there with no pain, the being alive returning and no pain, the comfort of being loved and still no pain; so there was a hollowness of loving, now no longer hollow, and the two sets of lips in the dark, pressing so that they were happily and kindly, darkly and warmly at home and without pain in the darkness, there came the siren cutting, suddenly, to rise like all the pain in the world. It was the real siren, not the one of the radio. It was not one siren. It was two. They were coming both ways up the street. He turned his head and then stood up. He thought that coming home had not lasted very long. \'93Go out the door and across the lot,\'94 he said. \'93Go. I can shoot from up here and make a diversion.\'94 \'93No, you go,\'94 she said. \'93Please, I will stay here to shoot and they will think you\'92re inside.\'94 \'93Come on\'94 he said. \'93We\'92ll both go. There\'92s nothing to defend here. This stuff is useless. It\'92s better to get away.\'94 \'93I want to stay,\'94 she said. \'93I want to protect you.\'94 She reached for the pistol in the holster under his arm and he slapped her face. \'93Come on. Don\'92t be a silly girl. Come on!\'94 They were going down the stairs now and he felt her close beside him. He swung the door open and together they stepped out the door and were clear of the building. He turned and locked the door. \'93Run, Maria,\'94 he said. \'93Across the lot in that direction. Go!\'94 \'93I want to go with you.\'94 He slapped her again quickly. \'93Run. Then dive in the weeds and crawl. Forgive me, Maria. But go. I go the other way. Go,\'94 he said. \'93Damn you. Go.\'94 They started into the weeds at the same time. He ran twenty paces and then, as the police cars stopped in front of the house, the sirens dying, he dropped flat and started to crawl. The weed pollen was dusty in his face and as he wriggled steadily along, the sand-burrs stabbing his hands and knees sharply and minutely, he heard them coming around the house. They had surrounded it. He crawled steadily, thinking hard, giving no importance to the pain. \'93But why the sirens?\'94 he thought. \'93Why no third car from the rear? Why no spotlight or a searchlight on this field? Cubans,\'94 he thought. \'93Can they be this stupid and theatrical? They must have thought there was no one in the house. They must have come only to seize the stuff. But why the sirens?\'94 Behind him he heard them breaking in the door. They were all around the house. He heard two blasts on a whistle from close to the house and he wriggled steadily on. \'93The fools,\'94 he thought. \'93But they must have found the basket and the dishes by now. What people! What a way to raid a house!\'94 He was almost to the edge of the lot now and he knew that he must rise and make a dash across the road for the far houses. He had found a way of crawling that hurt little. He could adjust himself to almost any movement. It was the brusque changes that hurt, and he dreaded rising to his feet. In the weeds he rose on one knee, took the shock of the pain, held through it, and then brought it on again as he drew the other foot alongside his knee in order to rise. He started to run toward the house across the street, at the back of the next lot, when the clicking on of the searchlight caught him so that he was full in the beam, looking toward it, the blackness a sharp line on either side. The searchlight was from the police car that had come silently, without siren, and posted itself at one back corner of the lot. As Enrique rose to his feet, thin, gaunt, sharply outlined in the beam, pulling at the big pistol in the holster under his armpit, the submachine guns opened on him from the darkened car. The feeling is that of being clubbed across the chest and he only felt the first one. The other clubbing thuds that came were echoes. He went forward onto his face in the weeds and as he fell, or perhaps it was between the time the searchlight went on and the first bullet reached him, he had one thought. \'93They are not so stupid. Perhaps something can be done with them.\'94 If he had had time for another thought it would have been to hope there was no car at the other corner. But there was a car at the other corner and its searchlight was going over the field. Its wide beam was playing over the weeds, where the girl, Maria, lay hidden. In the dark car the machine gunners, their guns poised, followed the sweep of the beam with the fluted, efficient ugliness of the Thompson muzzles. In the shadow of the tree, behind the darkened car from which the searchlight played, there was a Negro standing. He wore a flat-topped, narrow-brimmed straw hat and an alpaca coat. Under his shirt he wore a string of blue voodoo beads. He was standing quietly watching the lights working. The searchlights played on over the weedfield where the girl lay flat against the ground, her chin in the earth. She had not moved since she heard the burst of firing. She could feel her heart beating against the ground. \'93Do you see her?\'94 asked one of the men in the car. \'93Let them beat through the weeds for the other side,\'94 the lieutenant in the front seat said. \'93Hola,\'94 he called to the Negro under the tree. \'93Go to the house and tell them to beat toward us through the weeds in extended order. Are there only the two?\'94 \'93Only two,\'94 the Negro said in a quiet voice. \'93We have the other one.\'94 \'93Go.\'94 \'93Yes sir, Lieutenant,\'94 the Negro said. Holding his straw hat in both hands he started to run along the edge of the field toward the house where, now, lights shone from all the windows. In the field the girl lay, her hands clasped across the top of her head. \'93Help me to bear this,\'94 she said into the weeds, speaking to no one, for there was no one there. Then, suddenly, personally, sobbing, \'93Help me, Vicente. Help me, Felipe. Help me, Chucho. Help me, Arturo. Help me now, Enrique. Help me.\'94 At one time she would have prayed, but she had lost that and now she needed something. \'93Help me not to talk if they take me,\'94 she said, her mouth against the weeds. \'93Keep me from talking, Enrique. Keep me from ever talking, Vicente.\'94 Behind her she could hear them going through the weeds like beaters in a rabbit drive. They were spread wide and advancing like skirmishers, flashing their electric torches in the weeds. \'93Oh, Enrique,\'94 she said, \'93help me.\'94 She brought her hands down from her head and clenched them by her sides. \'93It is better so,\'94 she thought. \'93If I run they will shoot. It will be simpler.\'94 Slowly she got up and ran toward the car. The searchlight was full on her and she ran seeing only it, into its white, blinding eye. She thought this was the best way to do it. Behind her they were shouting. But there was no shooting. Someone tackled her heavily and she went down. She heard him breathing as he held her. Someone else took her under the arm and lifted her. Holding her by the two arms they walked her toward the car. They were not rough with her, but they walked her steadily toward the car. \'93No,\'94 she said. \'93No. No.\'94 \'93It\'92s the sister of Vicente Irtube,\'94 said the lieutenant. \'93She should be useful.\'94 \'93She\'92s been questioned before,\'94 said another. \'93Never seriously.\'94 \'93No,\'94 she said. \'93No. No.\'94 She cried aloud, \'93Help me, Vicente! Help me, help me, Enrique!\'94 \'93They\'92re dead,\'94 said someone. \'93They won\'92t help you. Don\'92t be silly.\'94 \'93Yes,\'94 she said. \'93They will help me. It is the dead that will help me. Oh, yes, yes, yes! It is our dead that will help me!\'94 \'93Take a look at Enrique then,\'94 said the lieutenant. \'93See if he will help you. He\'92s in the back of that car.\'94 \'93He\'92s helping me now,\'94 the girl, Maria, said. \'93Can\'92t you see he\'92s helping me now? Thank you, Enrique. Oh, thank you!\'94 \'93Come on,\'94 said the lieutenant. \'93She\'92s crazy. Leave four men to guard the stuff and we will send a truck for it. We\'92ll take this crazy up to headquarters. She can talk up there.\'94 \'93No,\'94 said Maria, taking hold of his sleeve. \'93Can\'92t you see everyone is helping me now?\'94 \'93No,\'94 said the lieutenant. \'93You are crazy.\'94 \'93No one dies for nothing,\'94 said Maria. \'93Everyone is helping me now.\'94 \'93Get them to help you in about an hour,\'94 said the lieutenant. \'93They will,\'94 said Maria. \'93Please don\'92t worry. Many, many people are helping me now.\'94 She sat there holding herself very still against the back of the seat. She seemed now to have a strange confidence. It was the same confidence another girl her age had felt a little more than five hundred years before in the market place of a town called Rouen. Maria did not think of this. Nor did anyone in the car think of it. The two girls named Jeanne and Maria had nothing in common except this sudden strange confidence which came when they needed it. But all of the policemen in the car felt uncomfortable about Maria now as she sat very straight with her face shining in the arc light. The cars started and in the back seat of the front car men were putting the machine guns back into the heavy canvas cases, slipping the stocks out and putting them in their diagonal pockets, the barrels with the handgrips in the big flapped pouch, the magazines in the narrow webbed pockets. The Negro with the flat straw hat came out from the shadow of the house and hailed the first car. He got up into the front seat, making two who rode there beside the driver, and the four cars turned onto the main road that led toward the sea-drive into La Havana. Sitting crowded on the front seat of the car, the Negro reached under his shirt and put his fingers on the string of blue voodoo beads. He sat without speaking, his fingers holding the beads. He had been a dock worker before he got a job as a stool pigeon for the Havana police and he would get fifty dollars for this night\'92s work. Fifty dollars is a lot of money now in La Havana, but the Negro could no longer think about the money. He turned his head a little, very slowly, as they came onto the lighted driveway of the Malecon and, looking back, saw the girl\'92s face, shining proudly, and her head held high. The Negro was frightened and he put his fingers all the way around the string of blue voodoo beads and held them tight. But they could not help his fear because he was up against an older magic now. The Good Lion ONCE UPON A TIME THERE WAS A LION that lived in Africa with all the other lions. The other lions were all bad lions and every day they ate zebras and wildebeests and every kind of antelope. Sometimes the bad lions ate people too. They ate Swahilis, Umbulus and Wandorobos and they especially liked to eat Hindu traders. All Hindu traders are very fat and delicious to a lion. But this lion, that we love because he was so good, had wings on his back. Because he had wings on his back the other lions all made fun of him. \'93Look at him with the wings on his back,\'94 they would say and then they would all roar with laughter. \'93Look at what he eats,\'94 they would say because the good lion only ate pasta and scampi because he was so good. The bad lions would roar with laughter and eat another Hindu trader and their wives would drink his blood, going lap, lap, lap with their tongues like big cats. They only stopped to growl with laughter or to roar with laughter at the good lion and to snarl at his wings. They were very bad and wicked lions indeed. But the good lion would sit and fold his wings back and ask politely if he might have a Negroni or an Americano and he always drank that instead of the blood of the Hindu traders. One day he refused to eat eight Masai cattle and only ate some tagliatelli and drank a glass of pomodoro. This made the wicked lions very angry and one of the lionesses, who was the wickedest of them all and could never get the blood of Hindu traders off her whiskers even when she rubbed her face in the grass, said, \'93Who are you that you think you are so much better than we are? Where do you come from, you pasta-eating lion? What are you doing here anyway?\'94 She growled at him and they all roared without laughter. \'93My father lives in a city where he stands under the clock tower and looks down on a thousand pigeons, all of whom are his subjects. When they fly they make a noise like a rushing river. There are more palaces in my father\'92s city than in all of Africa and there are four great bronze horses that face him and they all have one foot in the air because they fear him. \'93In my father\'92s city men go on foot or in boats and no real horse would enter the city for fear of my father.\'94 \'93Your father was a griffon,\'94 the wicked lioness said, licking her whiskers. \'93You are a liar,\'94 one of the wicked lions said. \'93There is no such city.\'94 \'93Pass me a piece of Hindu trader,\'94 another very wicked lion said. \'93This Masai cattle is too newly killed.\'94 \'93You are a worthless liar and the son of a griffon,\'94 the wickedest of all the lionesses said. \'93And now I think I shall kill you and eat you, wings and all.\'94 This frightened the good lion very much because he could see her yellow eyes and her tail going up and down and the blood caked on her whiskers and he smelled her breath which was very bad because she never brushed her teeth ever. Also she had old pieces of Hindu trader under her claws. \'93Don\'92t kill me,\'94 the good lion said. \'93My father is a noble lion and always has been respected and everything is true as I said.\'94 Just then the wicked lioness sprang at him. But he rose into the air on his wings and circled the group of wicked lions once, with them all roaring and looking at him. He looked down and thought, \'93What savages these lions are.\'94 He circled them once more to make them roar more loudly. Then he swooped low so he could look at the eyes of the wicked lioness who rose on her hind legs to try and catch him. But she missed him with her claws. \'93Adios,\'94 he said, for he spoke beautiful Spanish, being a lion of culture. \'93Au revoir,\'94 he called to them in his exemplary French. They all roared and growled in African lion dialect. Then the good lion circled higher and higher and set his course for Venice. He alighted in the Piazza and everyone was delighted to see him. He flew up for a moment and kissed his father on both cheeks and saw the horses still had their feeet up and the Basilica looked more beautiful than a soap bubble. The Campanile was in place and the pigeons were going to their nests for the evening. \'93How was Africa?\'94 his father said. \'93Very savage, father,\'94 the good lion replied. \'93We have night lighting here now,\'94 his father said. \'93So I see,\'94 the good lion answered like a dutiful son. \'93It bothers my eyes a little,\'94 his father confided to him. \'93Where are you going now, my son?\'94 \'93To Harry\'92s Bar,\'94 the good lion said. \'93Remember me to Cipriani and tell him I will be in some day soon to see about my bill,\'94 said his father. \'93Yes, father,\'94 said the good lion and he flew down lightly and walked to Harry\'92s Bar on his own four paws. In Cipriani\'92s nothing was changed. All of his friends were there. But he was a little changed himself from being in Africa. \'93A Negroni, Signor Barone?\'94 asked Mr. Cipriani. But the good lion had flown all the way from Africa and Africa had changed him. \'93Do you have any Hindu trader sandwiches?\'94 he asked Cipriani. \'93No, but I can get some.\'94 \'93While you are sending for them, make me a very dry martini.\'94 He added, \'93With Gordon\'92s gin.\'94 \'93Very good,\'94 said Cipriani. \'93Very good indeed.\'94 Now the lion looked about him at the faces of all the nice people and he knew that he was at home but that he had also traveled. He was very happy. The Faithful Bull ONE TIME THERE WAS A BULL AND HIS name was not Ferdinand and he cared nothing for flowers. He loved to fight and he fought with all the other bulls of his own age, or any age, and he was a champion. His horns were as solid as wood and they were as sharply pointed as the quill of a porcupine. They hurt him, at the base, when he fought and he did not care at all. His neck muscles lifted in a great lump that is called in Spanish the morillo and this morillo lifted like a hill when he was ready to fight. He was always ready to fight and his coat was black and shining and his eyes were clear. Anything made him want to fight and he would fight with deadly seriousness exactly as some people eat or read or go to church. Each time he fought he fought to kill and the other bulls were not afraid of him because they came of good blood and were not afraid. But they had no wish to provoke him. Nor did they wish to fight him. He was not a bully nor was he wicked, but he liked to fight as men might like to sing or to be the King or the President. He never thought at all. Fighting was his obligation and his duty and his joy. He fought on the stony, high ground. He fought under the cork-oak trees and he fought in the good pasture by the river. He walked fifteen miles each day from the river to the high, stony ground and he would fight any bull that looked at him. Still he was never angry. That is not really true, for he was angry inside himself. But he did not know why, because he could not think. He was very noble and he loved to fight. So what happened to him? The man who owned him, if anyone can own such an animal, knew what a great bull he was and still he was worried because this bull cost him so much money by fighting with other bulls. Each bull was worth over one thousand dollars and after they had fought the great bull they were worth less than two hundred dollars and sometimes less than that. So the man, who was a good man, decided that he would keep the blood of this bull in all of his stock rather than send him to the ring to be killed. So he selected him for breeding. But this bull was a strange bull. When they first turned him into the pasture with the breeding cows, he saw one who was young and beautiful and slimmer and better muscled and shinier and more lovely than all the others. So, since he could not fight, he fell in love with her and he paid no attention to any of the others. He only wanted to be with her, and the others meant nothing to him at all. The man who owned the bull ranch hoped that the bull would change, or learn, or be different than he was. But the bull was the same and he loved whom he loved and no one else. He only wanted to be with her, and the others meant nothing to him at all. So the man sent him away with five other bulls to be killed in the ring, and at least the bull could fight, even though he was faithful. He fought wonderfully and everyone admired him and the man who killed him admired him the most. But the fighting jacket of the man who killed him and who is called the matador was wet through by the end, and his mouth was very dry. \'93Que toro m\'e1s bravo,\'94 the matador said as he handed his sword to his sword handler. He handed it with the hilt up and the blade dripping with the blood from the heart of the brave bull who no longer had any problems of any kind and was being dragged out of the ring by four horses. \'93Yes. He was the one the Marqu\'e9s of Villamayor had to get rid of because he was faithful,\'94 the sword handler, who knew everything, said. \'93Perhaps we should all be faithful,\'94 the matador said. Get a Seeing-Eyed Dog \'93AND WHAT DID WE DO THEN?\'94 HE asked her. She told him. \'93That part is very strange. I can\'92t remember that at all.\'94 \'93Can you remember the safari leaving?\'94 \'93I should. But I don\'92t. I remember the women going down the trail to the beach for the water with the pots on their heads and I remember the flock of geese the toto drove back and forth to the water. I remember how slowly they all went and they were always going down or coming up. There was a very big tide too and the flats were yellow and the channel ran by the far island. The wind blew all the time and there were no flies and no mosquitoes. There was a roof and a cement floor and the poles that held the roof up, and the wind blew through them all the time. It was cool all day and lovely and cool at night.\'94 \'93Do you remember when the big dhow came in and careened on the low tide?\'94 \'93Yes, I remember her and the crew coming ashore in her boats and coming up the path from the beach, and the geese were afraid of them and so were the women.\'94 \'93That was the day we caught so many fish but had to come in because it was rough.\'94 \'93I remember that.\'94 \'93You\'92re remembering well today,\'94 she said. \'93Don\'92t do it too much.\'94 \'93I\'92m sorry you didn\'92t get to fly to Zanzibar,\'94 he said. \'93That upper beach from where we were was a fine place to land. You could have landed and taken off from there quite easily.\'94 \'93We can always go to Zanzibar. Don\'92t try to remember too much today. Would you like me to read to you? There\'92s always something in the old New Yorkers that we missed.\'94 \'93No, please don\'92t read,\'94 he said. \'93Just talk. Talk about the good days.\'94 \'93Do you want to hear about what it\'92s like outside?\'94 \'93It\'92s raining,\'94 he said. \'93I know that.\'94 \'93It\'92s raining a big rain,\'94 she told him. \'93There won\'92t be any tourists out with this weather. The wind is very wild and we can go down and sit by the fire.\'94 \'93We could anyway. I don\'92t care about them any more. I like to hear them talk.\'94 \'93Some of them are awful,\'94 she said. \'93But some of them are quite nice. I think it\'92s really the nicest ones that go out to Torcello.\'94 \'93That\'92s quite true,\'94 he said. \'93I hadn\'92t thought of that. There\'92s really nothing for them to see unless they are a bit too nice.\'94 \'93Can I make you a drink?\'94 she asked. \'93You know how worthless a nurse I am. I wasn\'92t trained for it and I haven\'92t any talent. But I can make drinks.\'94 \'93Let\'92s have a drink.\'94 \'93What do you want?\'94 \'93Anything,\'94 he said. \'93I\'92ll make a surprise. I\'92ll make it downstairs.\'94 He heard the door open and close and her feet on the stairs and he thought, I must get her to go on a trip. I must figure out some way to do it. I have to think up something practical. I\'92ve got this now for the rest of my life and I must figure out ways not to destroy her life and ruin her with it. She has been so good and she was not built to be good. I mean this sort of good. I mean good every day and dull good. He heard her coming up the stairs and noticed the difference in her tread when she was carrying two glasses and when she had walked down barehanded. He heard the rain on the windowpane and he smelled the beech logs burning in the fireplace. As she came into the room he put his hand out for the drink and closed his hand on it and felt her touch the glass with her own. \'93It\'92s our old drink for out here,\'94 she said. \'93Campari and Gordon\'92s with ice.\'94 \'93I\'92m certainly glad you\'92re not a girl who would say \'91on the rocks\'92\'94 \'93No,\'94 she said. \'93I wouldn\'92t ever say that. We\'92ve been on the rocks.\'94 \'93On our own two feet when the chips were down and for keeps,\'94 he remembered. \'93Do you remember when we barred those phrases?\'94 \'93That was in the time of my lion. Wasn\'92t he a wonderful lion? I can\'92t wait till we see him.\'94 \'93I can\'92t either,\'94 he said. \'93I\'92m sorry.\'94 \'93Do you remember when we barred that phrase?\'94 \'93I nearly said it again.\'94 \'93You know,\'94 he told her, \'93we\'92re awfully lucky to have come here. I remember it so well that it is palpable. That\'92s a new word and we\'92ll bar it soon. But it really is wonderful. When I hear the rain I can see it on the stones and on the canal and on the lagoon, and I know the way the trees bend in every wind and how the church and the tower are in every sort of light. We couldn\'92t have come to a better place for me. It\'92s really perfect. We\'92ve got the good radio and a fine tape recorder and I\'92m going to write better than I ever could. If you take your time with the tape recorder you can get the words right. I can work slow and I can see the words when I say them. If they\'92re wrong I hear them wrong and I can do them over and work on them until I get them right. Honey, in lots of ways we couldn\'92t have it better.\'94 \'93Oh, Philip\'97\'94 \'93Shit,\'94 he said. \'93The dark is just the dark. This isn\'92t like the real dark. I can see very well inside and now my head is better all the time and I can remember and I can make up well. You wait and see. Didn\'92t I remember better today?\'94 \'93You remember better all the time. And you\'92re getting strong.\'94 \'93I am strong,\'94 he said. \'93Now if you\'97\'94 \'93If me what?\'94 \'93If you\'92d go away for a while and get a rest and a change from this.\'94 \'93Don\'92t you want me?\'94 \'93Of course I want you, darling.\'94 \'93Then why do we have to talk about me going away? I know I\'92m not good at looking after you but I can do things other people can\'92t do and we do love each other. You love me and you know it and we know things nobody else knows.\'94 \'93We do wonderful things in the dark,\'94 he said. \'93And we did wonderful things in the daytime too.\'94 \'93You know I rather like the dark. In some ways it is an improvement.\'94 \'93Don\'92t lie too much,\'94 she said. \'93You don\'92t have to be so bloody noble.\'94 \'93Listen to it rain,\'94 he said. \'93How is the tide now?\'94 \'93It\'92s way out and the wind has driven the water even further out. You could almost walk to Burano.\'94 \'93All except one place,\'94 he said. \'93Are there many birds?\'94 \'93Mostly gulls and terns. They are down on the flats and when they get up the wind catches them.\'94 \'93Aren\'92t there any shore birds?\'94 \'93There are a few working on the part of the flats that only comes out when we have this wind and this tide.\'94 \'93Do you think it will ever be spring?\'94 \'93I don\'92t know,\'94 she said. \'93It certainly doesn\'92t act like it.\'94 \'93Have you drunk all your drink?\'94 \'93Just about. Why don\'92t you drink yours?\'94 \'93I was saving it.\'94 \'93Drink it up,\'94 she said. \'93Wasn\'92t it awful when you couldn\'92t drink at all?\'94 \'93No, you see,\'94 he said. \'93What I was thinking about when you went downstairs was that you could go to Paris and then to London and you\'92d see people and could have some fun and then you\'92d come back and it would have to be spring by then and you could tell me all about everything.\'94 \'93No,\'94 she said. \'93I think it would be intelligent to do,\'94 he said. \'93You know this is a long sort of stupid business and we have to learn to pace ourselves. And I don\'92t want to wear you out. You know\'97\'94 \'93I wish you wouldn\'92t say \'91you know\'92 so much.\'94 \'93You see? That\'92s one of the things. I could learn to talk in a non-irritating way. You might be mad about me when you came back.\'94 \'93What would you do nights?\'94 \'93Nights are easy.\'94 \'93I\'92ll bet they are. I suppose you\'92ve learned how to sleep too.\'94 \'93I\'92m going to,\'94 he told her and drank half the drink. \'93That\'92s part of The Plan. You know this is how it works. If you go away and have some fun then I have a good conscience. Then for the first time in my life with a good conscience I sleep automatically. I take a pillow which represents my good conscience and I put my arms around it and off I go to sleep. If I wake up by any odd chance I just think beautiful happy dirty thoughts. Or I make wonderful fine good resolutions. Or I remember things. You know I want you to have fun\'97\'94 \'93Please don\'92t say \'91you know\'92\'94 \'93I\'92ll concentrate on not saying it. It\'92s barred but I forget and let the bars down. Anyway I don\'92t want you just to be a seeing-eyed dog.\'94 \'93I\'92m not and you know it. Anyway it\'92s seeing-eye not seeing-eyed.\'94 \'93I knew that,\'94 he told her. \'93Come and sit here, would you mind very much?\'94 She came and sat by him on the bed and they both heard the rain hard against the pane of the window and he tried not to feel her head and her lovely face the way a blind man feels and there was no other way that he could touch her face except that way. He held her close and kissed the top of her head. I will have to try it another day, he thought. I must not be so stupid about it. She feels so lovely and I love her so much and have done her so much damage and I must learn to take good care of her in every way I can. If I think of her and of her only, everything will be all right. \'93I won\'92t say \'91you know\'92 all the time any more,\'94 he told her. \'93We can start with that.\'94 She shook her head and he could feel her tremble. \'93You say it all you want,\'94 she said and kissed him. \'93Please don\'92t cry, my blessed,\'94 he said. \'93I don\'92t want you to sleep with any lousy pillow,\'94 she said. \'93I won\'92t. Not any lousy pillow.\'94 Stop it, he said to himself. Stop it right now. \'93Look, tu,\'94 he said. \'93We\'92ll go down now and have lunch in our old fine place by the fire and I\'92ll tell you what a wonderful kitten you are and what lucky kittens we are.\'94 \'93We really are.\'94 \'93We\'92ll work everything out fine.\'94 \'93I just don\'92t want to be sent away.\'94 \'93Nobody is ever going to send you away.\'94 But walking down the stairs feeling each stair carefully and holding to the banister he thought, I must get her away and get her away as soon as I can without hurting her. Because I am not doing too well at this. That I can promise you. But what else can you do? Nothing, he thought. There\'92s nothing you can do. But maybe, as you go along, you will get good at it. A Man of the World THE BLIND MAN KNEW THE SOUNDS OF all the different machines in the Saloon. I don\'92t know how long it took him to learn the sounds of the machines but it must have taken him quite a time because he only worked one saloon at a time. He worked two towns though and he would start out of The Flats along after it was good and dark on his way up to Jessup. He\'92d stop by the side of the road when he heard a car coming and their lights would pick him up and either they would stop and give him a ride or they wouldn\'92t and would go on by on the icy road. It would depend on how they were loaded and whether there were women in the car because the blind man smelled plenty strong and especially in winter. But someone would always stop for him because he was a blind man. Everybody knew him and they called him Blindy which is a good name for a blind man in that part of the country, and the name of the saloon that he threw his trade to was The Pilot. Right next to it was another saloon, also with gambling and a dining room, that was called The Index. Both of these were the names of mountains and they were both good saloons with old-days bars and the gambling was about the same in one as in the other except you ate better in The Pilot probably, although you got a better sizzling steak at The Index. Then The Index was open all night long and got the early morning trade and from daylight until ten o\'92clock in the morning the drinks were on the house. They were the only saloons in Jessup and they did not have to do that kind of thing. But that was the way they were. Blindy probably preferred The Pilot because the machines were right along the left-hand wall as you came in and faced the bar. This gave him better control over them than he would have had at The Index where they were scattered on account it was a bigger place with more room. On this night it was really cold outside and he came in with icicles on his mustache and small pus icicles out of both eyes and he didn\'92t look really very good. Even his smell was froze but that wasn\'92t for very long and he started to put out almost as soon as the door was shut. It was always hard for me to look at him but I was looking at him carefully because I knew he always rode and I didn\'92t see how he would be frozen up so bad. Finally I asked him. \'93Where you walk from, Blindy?\'94 \'93Willie Sawyer put me out of his car down below the railway bridge. There weren\'92t no more cars come and I walked in.\'94 \'93What did he put you afoot for?\'94 somebody asked. \'93Said I smelled too bad.\'94 Someone had pulled the handle on a machine and Blindy started listening to the whirr. It came up nothing. \'93Any dudes playing?\'94 he asked me. \'93Can\'92t you hear?\'94 \'93Not yet.\'94 \'93No dudes, Blindy, and it\'92s a Wednesday.\'94 \'93I know what night it is. Don\'92t start telling me what night it is.\'94 Blindy went down the line of machines feeling in all of them to see if anything had been left in the cups by mistake. Naturally there wasn\'92t anything, but that was the first part of his pitch. He came back to the bar where we were and Al Chaney asked him to have a drink. \'93No,\'94 Blindy said. \'93I got to be careful on those roads.\'94 \'93What you mean those roads?\'94 somebody asked him. \'93You only go on one road. Between here and The Flats.\'94 \'93I been on lots of roads,\'94 Blindy said. \'93And any time I may have to take off and go on more.\'94 Somebody hit on a machine but it wasn\'92t any heavy hit. Blindy moved on it just the same. It was a quarter machine and the young fellow who was playing it gave him a quarter sort of reluctantly. Blindy felt it before he put it in his pocket. \'93Thank you,\'94 he said. \'93You\'92ll never miss it.\'94 The young fellow said, \'93Nice to know that,\'94 and put a quarter back in the machine and pulled down again. He hit again but this time pretty good and he scooped in the quarters and gave a quarter to Blindy.\'94 \'93Thanks,\'94 Blindy said. \'93You\'92re doing fine.\'94 \'93Tonight\'92s my night,\'94 the young fellow who was playing said. \'93Your night is my night,\'94 Blindy said and the young fellow went on playing but he wasn\'92t doing any good any more and Blindy was so strong standing by him and he looked so awful and finally the fellow quit playing and came over to the bar. Blindy had run him out but he had no way of noticing it because the fellow didn\'92t say anything, so Blindy just checked the machines again with his hand and stood there waiting for someone else to come in and make a play. There wasn\'92t any play at the wheel nor at the crap table and at the poker game there were just gamblers sitting there and cutting each other up. It was a quiet evening on a week night in town and there wasn\'92t any excitement. The place was not making a nickel except at the bar. But at the bar it was pleasant and the place had been nice until Blindy had come in. Now everybody was figuring they might as well go next door to The Index or else cut out and go home. \'93What will yours be, Tom?\'94 Frank the bartender asked me. \'93This is on the house.\'94 \'93I was figuring on shoving.\'94 \'93Have one first then.\'94 \'93The same with ditch,\'94 I said. Frank asked the young fellow, who was wearing heavy Oregon Cities and a black hat and was shaved clean and had a snow-burned face, what he would drink and the young fellow took the same. The whisky was Old Forester. I nodded to him and raised my drink and we both sipped at the drinks. Blindy was down at the far end of the machines. I think he figured maybe no one would come in if they saw him at the door. Not that he was self-conscious. \'93How did that man lose his sight?\'94 the young fellow asked me. \'93In a fight,\'94 Frank told him. \'93I wouldn\'92t know,\'94 I told him. \'93Him fight?\'94 the stranger said. He shook his head. \'93Yeah,\'94 Frank said. \'93He got that high voice out of the same fight. Tell him, Tom.\'94 \'93I never heard of it.\'94 \'93No. You wouldn\'92t of,\'94 Frank said. \'93Of course not. You wasn\'92t here, I suppose. Mister, it was a night about as cold as tonight. Maybe colder. It was a quick fight too. I didn\'92t see the start of it. Then they come fighting out of the door of The Index. Blackie, him that\'92s Blindy now, and this other boy Willie Sawyer, and they were slugging and kneeing and gouging and biting and I see one of Blackie\'92s eyes hanging down on his cheek. They were fighting on the ice of the road with the snow all banked up and the light from this door and The Index door, and Hollis Sands was right behind Willie Sawyer who was gouging for the eye and Hollis kept hollering, \'91Bite it off! Bite it off just like it was a grape!\'94 Blackie was biting onto Willie Sawyer\'92s face and he had a good holt and it give way with a jerk and then he had another good holt and they were down on the ice now and Willie Sawyer was gouging him to make him let go and then Blackie gave a yell like you\'92ve never heard. Worse than when they cut a boar.\'94 Blindy had come up opposite us and we smelled him and turned around. \'93\'91Bite it off just like it was a grape,\'92\'94 he said in his high-pitched voice and looked at us, moving his head up and down. \'93That was the left eye. He got the other one without no advice. Then he stomped me when I couldn\'92t see. That was the bad part.\'94 He patted himself. \'93I could fight good then,\'94 he said. \'93But he got the eye before I knew even what was happening. He got it with a lucky gouge. Well,\'94 Blindy said without any rancor, \'93that put a stop to my fighting days.\'94 \'93Give Blackie a drink,\'94 I said to Frank. \'93Blindy\'92s the name, Tom. I earned that name. You seen me earn it. That\'92s the same fellow who put me adrift down the road tonight. Fellow bit the eye. We ain\'92t never made friends.\'94 \'93What did you do to him?\'94 the stranger asked. \'93Oh, you\'92ll see him around,\'94 Blindy said. \'93You\'92ll recognize him any time you see him. I\'92ll let it come as a surprise.\'94 \'93You don\'92t want to see him,\'94 I told the stranger. \'93You know that\'92s one of the reasons I\'92d like to see sometimes,\'94 Blindy said. \'93I\'92d like to just have one good look at him.\'94 \'93You know what he looks like,\'94 Frank told him. \'93You went up and put your hands on his face once.\'94 \'93Did it again tonight too,\'94 Blindy said happily. \'93That\'92s why he put me out of the car. He ain\'92t got no sense of humor at all. I told him on a cold night like this he\'92d ought to bundle up so the whole inside of his face wouldn\'92t catch cold. He didn\'92t even think that was funny. You know that Willie Sawyer he\'92ll never be a man of the world.\'94 \'93Blackie, you have one on the house,\'94 Frank said. \'93I can\'92t drive you home because I only live just down the road. But you can sleep in the back of the place.\'94 \'93That\'92s mighty good of you, Frank. Only just don\'92t call me Blackie. I\'92m not Blackie any more. Blindy\'92s my name.\'94 \'93Have a drink, Blindy.\'94 \'93Yes, sir,\'94 Blindy said. His hand reached out and found the glass and he raised it accurately to the three of us. \'93That Willis Sawyer,\'94 he said. \'93Probably alone home by himself. That Willie Sawyer he don\'92t know how to have any fun at all.\'94 Summer People HALFWAY DOWN THE GRAVEL ROAD FROM Hortons Bay, the town, to the lake there was a spring. The water came up in a tile sunk beside the road, lipping over the cracked edge of the tile and flowing away through the close growing mint into the swamp. In the dark Nick put his arm down into the spring but could not hold it there because of the cold. He felt the featherings of the sand spouting up from the spring cones at the bottom against his fingers. Nick thought, I wish I could put all of myself in there. I bet that would fix me. He pulled his arm out and sat down at the edge of the road. It was a hot night. Down the road through the trees he could see the white of the Bean house on its piles over the water. He did not want to go down to the dock. Everybody was down there swimming. He did not want Kate with Odgar around. He could see the car on the road beside the warehouse. Odgar and Kate were down there. Odgar with that fried-fish look in his eye every time he looked at Kate. Didn\'92t Odgar know anything? Kate wouldn\'92t ever marry him. She wouldn\'92t ever marry anybody that didn\'92t make her. And if they tried to make her she would curl up inside of herself and be hard and slip away. He could make her do it all right. Instead of curling up hard and slipping away she would open out smoothly, relaxing, untightening, easy to hold. Odgar thought it was love that did it. His eyes got walleyed and red at the edges of the lids. She couldn\'92t bear to have him touch her. It was all in his eyes. Then Odgar would want them to be just the same friends as ever. Play in the sand. Make mud images. Take all-day trips in the boat together. Kate always in her bathing suit. Odgar looking at her. Odgar was thirty-two and had been twice operated on for varicocele. He was ugly to look at and everybody liked his face. Odgar could never get it and it meant everything in the world to him. Every summer he was worse about it. It was pitiful. Odgar was awfully nice. He had been nicer to Nick than anybody ever had. Now Nick could get it if he wanted it. Odgar would kill himself, Nick thought, if he knew it. I wonder how he\'92d kill himself. He couldn\'92t think of Odgar dead. He probably wouldn\'92t do it. Still people did. It wasn\'92t just love. Odgar thought just love would do it. Odgar loved her enough, God knows. It was liking, and liking the body, and introducing the body, and persuading, and taking chances, and never frightening, and assuming about the other person, and always taking never asking, and gentleness and liking, and making liking and happiness, and joking and making people not afraid. And making it all right afterwards. It wasn\'92t loving. Loving was frightening. He, Nicholas Adams, could have what he wanted because of something in him. Maybe it did not last. Maybe he would lose it. He wished he could give it to Odgar, or tell Odgar about it. You couldn\'92t ever tell anybody about anything. Especially Odgar. No, not especially Odgar. Anybody, anywhere. That had always been his first mistake, talking. He had talked himself out of too many things. There ought to be something you could do for the Princeton, Yale and Harvard virgins, though. Why weren\'92t there any virgins in state universities? Coeducation maybe. They met girls who were out to marry and the girls helped them along and married them. What would become of fellows like Odgar and Harvey and Mike and all the rest? He didn\'92t know. He hadn\'92t lived long enough. They were the best people in the world. What became of them? How the hell could he know. How could he write like Hardy and Hamsun when he only knew ten years of life. He couldn\'92t. Wait till he was fifty. In the dark he kneeled down and took a drink from the spring. He felt all right. He knew he was going to be a great writer. He knew things and they couldn\'92t touch him. Nobody could. Only he did not know enough things. That would come all right. He knew. The water was cold and made his eyes ache. He had swallowed too big a gulp. Like ice cream. That\'92s the way with drinking with your nose underwater. He\'92d better go swimming. Thinking was no good. It started and went on so. He walked down the road, past the car and the big warehouse on the left where apples and potatoes were loaded onto the boats in the fall, past the white-painted Bean house where they danced by lantern light sometimes on the hardwood floor, out on the dock to where they were swimming. They were all swimming off the end of the dock. As Nick walked along the rough boards high above the water he heard the double protest of the long springboard and a splash. The water lapped below in the piles. That must be the Ghee, he thought. Kate came up out of the water like a seal and pulled herself up the ladder. \'93It\'92s Wemedge,\'94 she shouted to the others. \'93Come on in, Wemedge. It\'92s wonderful.\'94 \'93Hi, Wemedge,\'94 said Odgar. \'93Boy it\'92s great.\'94 \'93Where\'92s Wemedge?\'94 It was the Ghee, swimming far out. \'93Is this man Wemedge a nonswimmer?\'94 Bill\'92s voice very deep and bass over the water. Nick felt good. It was fun to have people yell at you like that. He scuffed off his canvas shoes, pulled his shirt over his head and stepped out of his trousers. His bare feet felt the sandy planks of the dock. He ran very quickly out the yielding plank of the springboard, his toes shoved against the end of the board, he tightened and he was in the water, smoothly and deeply, with no consciousness of the dive. He had breathed in deeply as he took off and now went on and on through the water, holding his back arched, feet straight and trailing. Then he was on the surface, floating face down. He rolled over and opened his eyes. He did not care anything about swimming, only to dive and be underwater. \'93How is it, Wemedge?\'94 The Ghee was just behind him. \'93Warm as piss,\'94 Nick said. He took a deep breath, took hold of his ankles with his hands, his knees under his chin, and sank slowly down into the water. It was warm at the top but he dropped quickly into cool, then cold. As he neared the bottom it was quite cold. Nick floated down gently against the bottom. It was marly and his toes hated it as he uncurled and shoved hard against it to come up to the air. It was strange coming up from underwater into the dark. Nick rested in the water, barely paddling and comfortable. Odgar and Kate were talking together up on the dock. \'93Have you ever swum in a sea where it was phosphorescent, Carl?\'94 \'93No.\'94 Odgar\'92s voice was unnatural talking to Kate. We might rub ourselves all over with matches, Nick thought. He took a deep breath, drew his knees up, clasped tight and sank, this time with his eyes open. He sank gently, first going off to one side, then sinking head first. It was no good. He could not see underwater in the dark. He was right to keep his eyes shut when he first dove in. It was funny about reactions like that. They weren\'92t always right, though. He did not go all the way down but straightened out and swam along and up through the cool, keeping just below the warm surface water. It was funny how much fun it was to swim underwater and how little fun there was in plain swimming. It was fun to swim on the surface in the ocean. That was the buoyancy. But there was the taste of the brine and the way it made you thirsty. Fresh water was better. Just like this on a hot night. He came up for air just under the projecting edge of the dock and climbed up the ladder. \'93Oh, dive, Wemedge, will you?\'94 Kate said. \'93Do a good dive.\'94 They were sitting together on the dock leaning back against one of the big piles. \'93Do a noiseless one, Wemedge,\'94 Odgar said. \'93All right.\'94 Nick, dripping, walked out on the springboard, remembering how to do the dive. Odgar and Kate watched him, black in the dark, standing at the end of the board, poise and dive as he had learned from watching a sea otter. In the water as he turned to come up to the air Nick thought, Gosh, if I could only have Kate down here. He came up in a rush to the surface, feeling water in his eyes and ears. He must have started to take a breath. \'93It was perfect. Absolutely perfect,\'94 Kate shouted from the dock. Nick came up the ladder. \'93Where are the men?\'94 he asked. \'93They\'92re swimming way out in the bay,\'94 Odgar said. Nick lay down on the dock beside Kate and Odgar. He could hear the Ghee and Bill swimming way out in the dark. \'93You\'92re the most wonderful diver, Wemedge,\'94 Kate said, touching his back with her foot. Nick tightened under the contact. \'93No,\'94 he said. \'93You\'92re a wonder, Wemedge,\'94 Odgar said. \'93Nope,\'94 Nick said. He was thinking, thinking if it was possible to be with somebody underwater, he could hold his breath three minutes, against the sand on the bottom, they could float up together, take a breath and go down, it was easy to sink if you knew how. He had once drunk a bottle of milk and peeled and eaten a banana underwater to show off, had to have weights, though, to hold him down, if there was a ring at the bottom, something he could get his arm through, he could do it all right. Gee, how it would be, you couldn\'92t ever get a girl though, a girl couldn\'92t go through with it, she\'92d swallow water, it would drown Kate, Kate wasn\'92t really any good underwater, he wished there was a girl like that, maybe he\'92d get a girl like that, probably never, there wasn\'92t anybody but him that was that way underwater. Swimmers, hell, swimmers were slobs, nobody knew about the water but him, there was a fellow up at Evanston that could hold his breath six minutes but he was crazy. He wished he was a fish, no he didn\'92t. He laughed. \'93What\'92s the joke, Wemedge?\'94 Odgar said in his husky, near-to-Kate voice. \'93I wished I was a fish,\'94 Nick said. \'93That\'92s a good joke,\'94 said Odgar. \'93Sure,\'94 said Nick. \'93Don\'92t be an ass, Wemedge,\'94 said Kate. \'93Would you like to be a fish, Butstein?\'94 he said, lying with his head on the planks, facing away from them. \'93No,\'94 said Kate. \'93Not tonight.\'94 Nick pressed his back hard against her foot. \'93What animal would you like to be, Odgar?\'94 Nick said. \'93J. P. Morgan,\'94 Odgar said. \'93You\'92re nice, Odgar,\'94 Kate said. Nick felt Odgar glow. \'93I\'92d like to be Wemedge,\'94 Kate said. \'93You could always be Mrs. Wemedge,\'94 Odgar said. \'93There isn\'92t going to be any Mrs. Wemedge,\'94 Nick said. He tightened his back muscles. Kate had both her legs stretched out against his back as though she were resting them on a log in front of a fire. \'93Don\'92t be too sure,\'94 Odgar said. \'93I\'92m awful sure,\'94 Nick said. \'93I\'92m going to marry a mermaid.\'94 \'93She\'92d be Mrs. Wemedge,\'94 Kate said. \'93No she wouldn\'92t,\'94 Nick said. \'93I wouldn\'92t let her.\'94 \'93How would you stop her?\'94 \'93I\'92d stop her all right. Just let her try it.\'94 \'93Mermaids don\'92t marry,\'94 Kate said. \'93That\'92d be all right with me,\'94 Nick said. \'93The Mann Act would get you,\'94 said Odgar. \'93We\'92d stay outside the four-mile limit,\'94 Nick said. \'93We\'92d get food from the rumrunners. You could get a diving suit and come and visit us, Odgar. Bring Butstein if she wants to come. We\'92ll be at home every Thursday afternoon.\'94 \'93What are we going to do tomorrow?\'94 Odgar said, his voice becoming husky, near to Kate again. \'93Oh, hell, let\'92s not talk about tomorrow,\'94 Nick said. \'93Let\'92s talk about my mermaid.\'94 \'93We\'92re through with your mermaid.\'94 \'93All right,\'94 Nick said. \'93You and Odgar go and talk. I\'92m going to think about her.\'94 \'93You\'92re immoral, Wemedge. You\'92re disgustingly immoral.\'94 \'93No, I\'92m not. I\'92m honest.\'94 Then, lying with his eyes shut, he said, \'93Don\'92t bother me. I\'92m thinking about her.\'94 He lay there thinking of his mermaid while Kate\'92s insteps pressed against his back and she and Odgar talked. Odgar and Kate talked but he did not hear them. He lay, no longer thinking, quite happy. Bill and the Ghee had come out of the water farther down the shore, walked down the beach up to the car and then backed it out onto the dock. Nick stood up and put on his clothes. Bill and the Ghee were in the front seat, tired from the long swim. Nick got in behind with Kate and Odgar. They leaned back. Bill drove roaring up the hill and turned onto the main road. On the main highway Nick could see the lights of other cars up ahead, going out of sight, then blinding as they mounted a hill, blinking as they came near, then dimmed as Bill passed. The road was high along the shore of the lake. Big cars out from Charlevoix, rich slobs riding behind their chauffeurs, came up and passed, hogging the road and not dimming their lights. They passed like railway trains. Bill flashed the spotlights on cars alongside the road in the trees, making the occupants change their positions. Nobody passed Bill from behind, although a spotlight played on the back of their heads for some time until Bill drew away. Bill slowed, then turned abruptly onto the sandy road that ran up through the orchard to the farmhouse. The car, in low gear, moved steadily up through the orchard. Kate put her lips to Nick\'92s ear. \'93In about an hour, Wemedge,\'94 she said. Nick pressed his thigh hard against hers. The car circled at the top of the hill above the orchard and stopped in front of the house. \'93Aunty\'92s asleep. We\'92ve got to be quiet,\'94 Kate said. \'93Good night, men,\'94 Bill whispered. \'93We\'92ll stop by in the morning.\'94 \'93Good night, Smith,\'94 whispered the Ghee. \'93Good night, Butstein.\'94 \'93Good night, Ghee,\'94 Kate said. Odgar was staying at the house. \'93Good night, men,\'94 Nick said. \'93See you, Morgen.\'94 \'93Night, Wemedge,\'94 Odgar said from the porch. Nick and the Ghee walked down the road into the orchard. Nick reached up and took an apple from one of the Duchess trees. It was still green but he sucked the acid juice from the bite and spat out the pulp. \'93You and the Bird took a long swim, Ghee,\'94 he said. \'93Not so long, Wemedge,\'94 the Ghee answered. They came out from the orchard past the mailbox onto the hard state highway. There was a cold mist in the hollow where the road crossed the creek. Nick stopped on the bridge. \'93Come on, Wemedge,\'94 the Ghee said. \'93All right,\'94 Nick agreed. They went on up the hill to where the road turned into the grove of trees around the church. There were no lights in any of the houses they passed. Hortons Bay was asleep. No motor cars had passed them. \'93I don\'92t feel like turning in yet,\'94 Nick said. \'93Want me to walk with you?\'94 \'93No, Ghee. Don\'92t bother.\'94 \'93All right.\'94 \'93I\'92ll walk up as far as the cottage with you,\'94 Nick said. They unhooked the screen door and went into the kitchen. Nick opened the meat safe and looked around. \'93Want some of this, Ghee?\'94 he said. \'93I want a piece of pie,\'94 the Ghee said. \'93So do I,\'94 Nick said. He wrapped up some fried chicken and two pieces of cherry pie in oiled paper from the top of the icebox. \'93I\'92ll take this with me,\'94 he said. The Ghee washed down his pie with a dipper full of water from the bucket. \'93If you want anything to read. Ghee, get it out of my room,\'94 Nick said. The Ghee had been looking at the lunch Nick had wrapped up. \'93Don\'92t be a damn fool, Wemedge,\'94 he said. \'93That\'92s all right. Ghee.\'94 \'93All right. Only don\'92t be a damn fool,\'94 the Ghee said. He opened the screen door and went out across the grass to the cottage. Nick turned off the light and went out, hooking the screen door shut. He had the lunch wrapped up in a newspaper and crossed the wet grass, climbed the fence and went up the road through the town under the big elm trees, past the last cluster of R.F.D. mailboxes at the crossroads and out onto the Charlevoix highway. After crossing the creek he cut across a field, skirted the edge of the orchard, keeping to the edge of the clearing, and climbed the rail fence into the wood lot. In the center of the wood lot four hemlock trees grew close together. The ground was soft with pine needles and there was no dew. The wood lot had never been cut over and the forest floor was dry and warm without underbrush. Nick put the package of lunch by the base of one of the hemlocks and lay down to wait. He saw Kate coming through the trees in the dark but did not move. She did not see him and stood a moment, holding the two blankets in her arms. In the dark it looked like some enormous pregnancy. Nick was shocked. Then it was funny. \'93Hello, Butstein,\'94 he said. She dropped the blankets. \'93Oh, Wemedge. You shouldn\'92t have frightened me like that. I was afraid you hadn\'92t come.\'94 \'93Dear Butstein,\'94 Nick said. He held her close against him, feeling her body against his, all the sweet body against his body. She pressed close against him. \'93I love you so, Wemedge.\'94 \'93Dear, dear old Butstein,\'94 Nick said. They spread the blankets, Kate smoothing them flat. \'93It was awfully dangerous to bring the blankets,\'94 Kate said. \'93I know,\'94 Nick said. \'93Let\'92s undress.\'94 \'93Oh, Wemedge.\'94 \'93It\'92s more fun.\'94 They undressed sitting on the blankets. Nick was a little embarrassed to sit there like that. \'93Do you like me with my clothes off, Wemedge?\'94 \'93Gee, let\'92s get under,\'94 Nick said. They lay between the rough blankets. He was hot against her cool body, hunting for it, then it was all right. \'93Is it all right?\'94 Kate pressed all the way up for answer. \'93Is it fun?\'94 \'93Oh, Wemedge. I\'92ve wanted it so. I\'92ve needed it so.\'94 They lay together in the blankets. Wemedge slid his head down, his nose touching along the line of the neck, down between her breasts. It was like piano keys. \'93You smell so cool,\'94 he said. He touched one of her small breasts with his lips gently. It came alive between his lips, his tongue pressing against it. He felt the whole feeling coming back again and, sliding his hands down, moved Kate over. He slid down and she fitted close in against him. She pressed tight in against the curve of his abdomen. She felt wonderful there. He searched, a little awkwardly, then found it. He put both hands over her breasts and held her to him. Nick kissed hard against her back. Kate\'92s head dropped forward. \'93Is it good this way?\'94 he said. \'93I love it. I love it. I love it. Oh, come, Wemedge. Please come. Come, come. Please, Wemedge. Please, please, Wemedge.\'94 \'93There it is,\'94 Nick said. He was suddenly conscious of the blanket rough against his bare body. \'93Was I bad, Wemedge?\'94 Kate said. \'93No, you were good,\'94 Nick said. His mind was working very hard and clear. He saw everything very sharp and clear. \'93I\'92m hungry,\'94 he said. \'93I wish we could sleep here all night.\'94 Kate cuddled against him. \'93It would be swell,\'94 Nick said. \'93But we can\'92t. You\'92ve got to get back to the house.\'94 \'93I don\'92t want to go,\'94 Kate said. Nick stood up, a little wind blowing on his body. He pulled on his shirt and was glad to have it on. He put on his trousers and shoes. \'93You\'92ve got to get dressed, Stut,\'94 he said. She lay there, the blankets pulled over her head. \'93Just a minute,\'94 she said. Nick got the lunch from over the hemlock. He opened it up. \'93Come on, get dressed, Stut,\'94 he said. \'93I don\'92t want to,\'94 Kate said. \'93I\'92m going to sleep here all night.\'94 She sat up in the blankets. \'93Hand me those things, Wemedge.\'94 Nick gave her the clothes. \'93I\'92ve just thought of it,\'94 Kate said. \'93If I sleep out here they\'92ll just think that I\'92m an idiot and came out here with the blankets and it will be all right.\'94 \'93You won\'92t be comfortable,\'94 Nick said. \'93If I\'92m uncomfortable I\'92ll go in.\'94 \'93Let\'92s eat before I have to go,\'94 Nick said. \'93I\'92ll put something on,\'94 Kate said. They sat together and ate the fried chicken and each ate a piece of cherry pie. Nick stood up, then kneeled down and kissed Kate. He came through the wet grass to the cottage and upstairs to his room, walking carefully not to creak. It was good to be in bed, sheets, stretching out full length, dipping his head in the pillow. Good in bed, comfortable, happy, fishing tomorrow, he prayed as he always prayed when he remembered it, for the family, himself, to be a great writer, Kate, the men, Odgar, for good fishing, poor old Odgar, poor old Odgar, sleeping up there at the cottage, maybe not fishing, maybe not sleeping all night. Still there wasn\'92t anything you could do, not a thing. O r i g i n a l ly p u b l i s h e d i n T he N i c k A d a ms S t o r i e s , t h i s s h o r t s t o ry w a s l eft u n c o mp l e t e d by He m i n gw ay. The Last Good Country \'93NICKIE,\'94 HIS SISTER SAID TO HIM. \'93LISten to me, Nickie.\'94 \'93I don\'92t want to hear it.\'94 He was watching the bottom of the spring where the sand rose in small spurts with the bubbling water. There was a tin cup on a forked stick that was stuck in the gravel by the spring and Nick Adams looked at it and at the water rising and then flowing clear in its gravel bed beside the road. He could see both ways on the road and he looked up the hill and then down to the dock and the lake, the wooded point across the bay and the open lake beyond where there were white caps running. His back was against a big cedar tree and behind him there was a thick cedar swamp. His sister was sitting on the moss beside him and she had her arm around his shoulders. \'93The\'92re waiting for you to come home to supper,\'94 his sister said. \'93There\'92s two of them. They came in a buggy and they asked where you were.\'94 \'93Did anybody tell them?\'94 \'93Nobody knew where you were but me. Did you get many, Nickie?\'94 \'93I got twenty-six.\'94 \'93Are they good ones?\'94 \'93Just the size they want for the dinners.\'94 \'93Oh, Nickie, I wish you wouldn\'92t sell them.\'94 \'93She gives me a dollar a pound,\'94 Nick Adams said. His sister was tanned brown and she had dark brown eyes and dark brown hair with yellow streaks in it from the sun. She and Nick loved each other and they did not love the others. They always thought of everyone else in the family as the others. \'93They know about everything, Nickie,\'94 his sister said hopelessly. \'93They said they were going to make an example of you and send you to the reform school.\'94 \'93They\'92ve only got proof on one thing,\'94 Nick told her. \'93But I guess I have to go away for a while.\'94 \'93Can I go?\'94 \'93No. I\'92m sorry, Littless. How much money have we got?\'94 \'93Fourteen dollars and sixty-five cents. I brought it.\'94 \'93Did they say anything else?\'94 \'93No. Only that they were going to stay till you came home.\'94 \'93Our mother will get tired of feeding them.\'94 \'93She gave them lunch already.\'94 \'93What were they doing?\'94 \'93Just sitting around on the screen porch. They asked our mother for your rifle but I\'92d hid it in the woodshed when I saw them by the fence.\'94 \'93Were you expecting them?\'94 \'93Yes. Weren\'92t you?\'94 \'93I guess so. Goddam them.\'94 \'93Goddam them for me, too,\'94 his sister said. \'93Aren\'92t I old enough to go now? I hid the rifle. I brought the money.\'94 \'93I\'92d worry about you,\'94 Nick Adams told her. \'93I don\'92t even know where I\'92m going.\'94 \'93Sure you do.\'94 \'93If there\'92s two of us they\'92d look harder. A boy and a girl show up.\'94 \'93I\'92d go like a boy,\'94 she said. \'93I always wanted to be a boy anyway. They couldn\'92t tell anything about me if my hair was cut.\'94 \'93No,\'94 Nick Adams said. \'93That\'92s true.\'94 \'93Let\'92s think something out good,\'94 she said. \'93Please, Nick, please. I could be lots of use and you\'92d be lonely without me. Wouldn\'92t you be?\'94 \'93I\'92m lonely now thinking about going away from you.\'94 \'93See? And we may have to be away for years. Who can tell? Take me, Nickie. Please take me.\'94 She kissed him and held onto him with both her arms. Nick Adams looked at her and tried to think straight. It was difficult. But there was no choice. \'93I shouldn\'92t take you. But then I shouldn\'92t have done any of it,\'94 he said. \'93I\'92ll take you. Maybe only for a couple of days, though.\'94 \'93That\'92s all right,\'94 she told him. \'93When you don\'92t want me I\'92ll go straight home. I\'92ll go home anyway if I\'92m a bother or a nuisance or an expense.\'94 \'93Let\'92s think it out,\'94 Nick Adams told her. He looked up and down the road and up at the sky where the big high afternoon clouds were riding and at the white caps on the lake out beyond the point. \'93I\'92d go through the woods down to the inn beyond the point and sell her the trout,\'94 he told his sister. \'93She ordered them for dinners tonight. Right now they want more trout dinners than chicken dinners. I don\'92t know why. The trout are in good shape. I gutted them and they\'92re wrapped in cheesecloth and they\'92ll be cool and fresh. I\'92ll tell her I\'92m in some trouble with the game wardens and that they\'92re looking for me and I have to get out of the country for a while. I\'92ll get her to give me a small skillet and some salt and pepper and some bacon and some shortening and some com meal. I\'92ll get her to give me a sack to put everything in and I\'92ll get some dried apricots and some prunes and some tea and plenty of matches and a hatchet. But I can only get one blanket. She\'92ll help me because buying trout is just as bad as selling them.\'94 \'93I can get a blanket,\'94 his sister said. \'93I\'92ll wrap it around the rifle and I\'92ll bring your moccasins and my moccasins and I\'92ll change to different overalls and a shirt and hide these so they\'92ll think I\'92m wearing them and I\'92ll bring soap and a comb and a pair of scissors and something to sew with and Lorna Doone and Swiss Family Robinson.\'94 \'93Bring all the .22\'92s you can find,\'94 Nick Adams said. Then quickly, \'93Come on back. Get out of sight.\'94 He had seen a buggy coming down the road. Behind the cedars they lay flat against the springy moss with their faces down and heard the soft noise of the horses\'92 hooves in the sand and the small noise of the wheels. Neither of the men in the buggy was talking but Nick Adams smelled them as they went past and he smelled the sweated horses. He sweated himself until they were well past on their way to the dock because he thought they might stop to water at the spring or to get a drink. \'93Is that them, Littless?\'94 he asked. \'93Yeah,\'94 she said. \'93Crawl way back in,\'94 Nick Adams said. He crawled back into the swamp, pulling his sack of fish. The swamp was mossy and not muddy there. Then he stood up and hid the sack behind the trunk of a cedar and motioned the girl to come further in. They went into the cedar swamp, moving as softly as deer. \'93I know the one,\'94 Nick Adams said. \'93He\'92s a no good son of a bitch.\'94 \'93He said he\'92d been after you for four years.\'94 \'93I know.\'94 \'93The other one, the big one with the spit tobacco face and the blue suit, is the one from down state.\'94 \'93Good,\'94 Nick said. \'93Now we\'92ve had a look at them I better get going. Can you get home all right?\'94 \'93Sure. I\'92ll cut up to the top of the hill and keep off the road. Where will I meet you tonight, Nickie?\'94 \'93I don\'92t think you ought to come, Littless.\'94 \'93I\'92ve got to come. You don\'92t know how it is. I can leave a note for our mother and say I went with you and you\'92ll take good care of me.\'94 \'93All right,\'94 Nick Adams said. \'93I\'92ll be where the big hemlock is that was struck by lightning. The one that\'92s down. Straight up from the cove. Do you know the one? On the short cut to the road.\'94 \'93That\'92s awfully close to the house.\'94 \'93I don\'92t want you to have to carry the stuff too far.\'94 \'93I\'92ll do what you say. But don\'92t take chances, Nickie.\'94 \'93I\'92d like to have the rifle and go down now to the edge of the timber and kill both of those bastards while they\'92re on the dock and wire a piece of iron on them from the old mill and sink them in the channel.\'94 \'93And then what would you do?\'94 his sister asked. \'93Somebody sent them.\'94 \'93Nobody sent that first son of a bitch.\'94 \'93But you killed the moose and you sold the trout and you killed what they took from your boat.\'94 \'93That was all right to kill that.\'94 He did not like to mention what that was, because that was the proof they had. \'93I know. But you\'92re not going to kill people and that\'92s why I\'92m going with you.\'94 \'93Let\'92s stop talking about it. But I\'92d like to kill those two sons of bitches.\'94 \'93I know,\'94 she said. \'93So would I. But we\'92re not going to kill people, Nickie. Will you promise me?\'94 \'93No. Now I don\'92t know whether it\'92s safe to take her the trout.\'94 \'93I\'92ll take them to her.\'94 \'93No. They\'92re too heavy. I\'92ll take them through the swamp and to the woods in back of the hotel. You go straight to the hotel and see if she\'92s there and if everything\'92s all right. And if it is you\'92ll find me there by the big basswood tree.\'94 \'93It\'92s a long way there through the swamp, Nicky.\'94 \'93It\'92s a long way back from reform school, too.\'94 \'93Can\'92t I come with you through the swamp? I\'92ll go in then and see her while you stay out and come back out with you and take them in.\'94 \'93All right,\'94 Nick said. \'93But I wish you\'92d do it the other way.\'94 \'93Why, Nickie?\'94 \'93Because you\'92ll see them maybe on the road and you can tell me where they\'92ve gone. I\'92ll see you in the second-growth wood lot in back of the hotel where the big basswood is.\'94 Nick waited more than an hour in the second-growth timber and his sister had not come. When she came she was excited and he knew she was tired. \'93They\'92re at our house,\'94 she said. \'93They\'92re sitting out on the screen porch and drinking whiskey and ginger ale and they\'92ve unhitched and put their horses up. They say they\'92re going to wait till you come back. It was our mother told them you\'92d gone fishing at the creek. I don\'92t think she meant to. Anyway I hope not.\'94 \'93What about Mrs. Packard?\'94 \'93I saw her in the kitchen of the hotel and she asked me if I\'92d seen you and I said no. She said she was waiting for you to bring her some fish for tonight. She was worried. You might as well take them in.\'94 \'93Good,\'94 he said. \'93They\'92re nice and fresh. I repacked them in ferns.\'94 \'93Can I come in with you?\'94 \'93Sure,\'94 Nick said. The hotel was a long wooden building with a porch that fronted on the lake. There were wide wooden steps that led down to the pier that ran far out into the water and there were natural cedar railings alongside the steps and natural cedar railings around the porch. There were chairs made of natural cedar on the porch and in them sat middle-aged people wearing white clothes. There were three pipes set on the lawn with spring water bubbling out of them, and little paths led to them. The water tasted like rotten eggs because these were mineral springs and Nick and his sister used to drink from them as a matter of discipline. Now coming toward the rear of the hotel, where the kitchen was, they crossed a plank bridge over a small brook running into the lake beside the hotel, and slipped into the back door of the kitchen. \'93Wash them and put them in the ice box, Nickie,\'94 Mrs. Packard said. \'93I\'92ll weigh them later.\'94 \'93Mrs. Packard,\'94 Nick said. \'93Could I speak to you a minute?\'94 \'93Speak up,\'94 she said. \'93Can\'92t you see I\'92m busy?\'94 \'93If I could have the money now.\'94 Mrs. Packard was a handsome woman in a gingham apron. She had a beautiful complexion and she was very busy and her kitchen help were there as well. \'93You don\'92t mean you want to sell trout. Don\'92t you know that\'92s against the law?\'94 \'93I know,\'94 Nick said. \'93I brought you the fish for a present. I mean my time for the wood I split and corded.\'94 \'93I\'92ll get it,\'94 she said. \'93I have to go to the annex.\'94 Nick and his sister followed her outside. On the board sidewalk that led to the icehouse from the kitchen she stopped and put her hands in her apron pocket and took out a pocketbook. \'93You get out of here,\'94 she said quickly and kindly. \'93And get out of here fast. How much do you need?\'94 \'93I\'92ve got sixteen dollars,\'94 Nick said. \'93Take twenty,\'94 she told him. \'93And keep that tyke out of trouble. Let her go home and keep an eye on them until you\'92re clear.\'94 \'93When did you hear about them?\'94 She shook her head at him. \'93Buying is as bad or worse than selling,\'94 she said. \'93You stay away until things quiet down. Nickie, you\'92re a good boy no matter what anybody says. You see Packard if things get bad. Come here nights if you need anything. I sleep light. Just knock on the window.\'94 \'93You aren\'92t going to serve them tonight are you, Mrs. Packard? You\'92re not going to serve them for the dinners?\'94 \'93No,\'94 she said. \'93But I\'92m not going to waste them. Packard can eat half a dozen and I know other people that can. Be careful, Nickie, and let it blow over. Keep out of sight.\'94 \'93Littless wants to go with me.\'94 \'93Don\'92t you dare take her,\'94 Mrs. Packard said. \'93You come by tonight and I\'92ll have some stuff made up for you.\'94 \'93Could you let me take a skillet?\'94 \'93I\'92ll have what you need. Packard knows what you need. I don\'92t give you any more money so you\'92ll keep out of trouble.\'94 \'93I\'92d like to see Mr. Packard about getting a few things.\'94 \'93He\'92ll get you anything you need. But don\'92t you go near the store, Nick.\'94 \'93I\'92ll get Littless to take him a note.\'94 \'93Anytime you need anything,\'94 Mrs. Packard said. \'93Don\'92t you worry. Packard will be studying things out.\'94 \'93Good-bye, Aunt Halley.\'94 \'93Good-bye,\'94 she said and kissed him. She smelt wonderful when she kissed him. It was the way the kitchen smelled when they were baking. Mrs. Packard smelled like her kitchen and her kitchen always smelled good. \'93Don\'92t worry and don\'92t do anything bad.\'94 \'93I\'92ll be all right.\'94 \'93Of course,\'94 she said. \'93And Packard will figure out something.\'94 They were in the big hemlocks on the hill behind the house now. It was evening and the sun was down beyond the hills on the other side of the lake. \'93I\'92ve found everything,\'94 his sister said. \'93It\'92s going to make a pretty big pack, Nickie.\'94 \'93I know it. What are they doing?\'94 \'93They ate a big supper and now they\'92re sitting out on the porch and drinking. They\'92re telling each other stories about how smart they are.\'94 \'93They aren\'92t very smart so far.\'94 \'93They\'92re going to starve you out,\'94 his sister said. \'93A couple of nights in the woods and you\'92ll be back. You hear a loon holler a couple of times when you got an empty stomach and you\'92ll be back.\'94 \'93What did our mother give them for supper?\'94 \'93Awful,\'94 his sister said. \'93Good.\'94 \'93I\'92ve located everything on the list. Our mother\'92s gone to bed with a sick headache. She wrote our father.\'94 \'93Did you see the letter?\'94 \'93No. It\'92s in her room with the list of stuff to get from the store tomorrow. She\'92s going to have to make a new list when she finds everything is gone in the morning.\'94 \'93How much are they drinking?\'94 \'93They\'92ve drunk about a bottle, I guess.\'94 \'93I wish we could put knockout drops in it.\'94 \'93I could put them in if you\'92ll tell me how. Do you put them in the bottle?\'94 \'93No. In the glass. But we haven\'92t got any.\'94 \'93Would there be any in the medicine cabinet?\'94 \'93No.\'94 \'93I could put paregoric in the bottle. They have another bottle. Or calomel. I know we\'92ve got those.\'94 \'93No,\'94 said Nick. \'93You try to get me about half the other bottle when they\'92re asleep. Put it in any old medicine bottle.\'94 \'93I better go and watch them,\'94 his sister said. \'93My, I wish we had knockout drops. I never even heard of them.\'94 \'93They aren\'92t really drops,\'94 Nick told her. \'93It\'92s chloral hydrate. Whores give it to lumberjacks in their drinks when they\'92re going to jack roll them.\'94 \'93It sounds pretty bad,\'94 his sister said. \'93But we probably ought to have some for in emergencies.\'94 \'93Let me kiss you,\'94 her brother said. \'93Just for in an emergency. Let\'92s go down and watch them drinking. I\'92d like to hear them talk sitting in our own house.\'94 \'93Will you promise not to get angry and do anything bad?\'94 \'93Sure.\'94 \'93Nor to the horses. It\'92s not the horses\'92 fault.\'94 \'93Not the horses either.\'94 \'93I wish we had knockout drops,\'94 his sister said loyally. \'93Well, we haven\'92t,\'94 Nick told her. \'93I guess there aren\'92t any this side of Boyne City.\'94 They sat in the woodshed and they watched the two men sitting at the table on the screen porch. The moon had not risen and it was dark, but the outlines of the men showed against the lightness that the lake made behind them. They were not talking now but were both leaning forward on the table. Then Nick heard the clink of ice against a bucket. \'93The ginger ale\'92s gone,\'94 one of the men said. \'93I said it wouldn\'92t last,\'94 the other said. \'93But you were the one said we had plenty.\'94 \'93Get some water. There\'92s a pail and a dipper in the kitchen.\'94 \'93I\'92ve drunk enough. I\'92m going to turn in.\'94 \'93Aren\'92t you going to stay up for that kid?\'94 \'93No. I\'92m going to get some sleep. You stay up.\'94 \'93Do you think he\'92ll come in tonight?\'94 \'93I don\'92t know. I\'92m going to get some sleep. You wake me when you get sleepy.\'94 \'93I can stay up all night,\'94 the local warden said. \'93Many\'92s the night I\'92ve stayed up all night for jack lighters and never shut an eye.\'94 \'93Me, too,\'94 the down-state man said. \'93But now I\'92m going to get a little sleep.\'94 Nick and his sister watched him go in the door. Their mother had told the two men they could sleep in the bedroom next to the living room. They saw when he struck a match. Then the window was dark again. They watched the other warden sitting at the table until he put his head on his arms. Then they heard him snoring. \'93We\'92ll give him a little while to make sure he\'92s solid asleep. Then we\'92ll get the stuff,\'94 Nick said. \'93You get over outside the fence,\'94 his sister said. \'93It doesn\'92t matter if I\'92m moving around. But he might wake up and see you.\'94 \'93All right,\'94 Nick agreed. \'93I\'92ll get everything out of here. Most of it\'92s here.\'94 \'93Can you find everything without a light?\'94 \'93Sure. Where\'92s the rifle?\'94 \'93Flat on the back upper rafter. Don\'92t slip or make the wood fall down. Nick.\'94 \'93Don\'92t you worry.\'94 She came out to the fence at the far corner where Nick was making up his pack beyond the big hemlock that had been struck by lightning the summer before and had fallen in a storm that autumn. The moon was just rising now behind the far hills and enough moonlight came through the trees for Nick to see clearly what he was packing. His sister put down the sack she was carrying and said, \'93They\'92re sleeping like pigs, Nickie.\'94 \'93Good.\'94 \'93The down-state one was snoring just like the one outside. I think I got everything.\'94 \'93You good old Littless.\'94 \'93I wrote a note to our mother and told her I was going with you to keep you out of trouble and not to tell anybody and that you\'92d take good care of me. I put it under her door. It\'92s locked.\'94 \'93Oh, shit,\'94 Nick said. Then he said, \'93I\'92m sorry, Littless.\'94 \'93Now it\'92s not your fault and I can\'92t make it worse for you.\'94 \'93You\'92re awful.\'94 \'93Can\'92t we be happy now?\'94 \'93Sure.\'94 \'93I brought the whiskey,\'94 she said hopefully. \'93I left some in the bottle. One of them can\'92t be sure the other didn\'92t drink it. Anyway they have another bottle.\'94 \'93Did you bring a blanket for you?\'94 \'93Of course.\'94 \'93We better get going.\'94 \'93We\'92re all right if we\'92re going where I think. The only thing that makes the pack bigger is my blanket. I\'92ll carry the rifle.\'94 \'93All right. What kind of shoes have you?\'94 \'93I\'92ve got my work-moccasins.\'94 \'93What did you bring to read?\'94 \'93Lorna Doone and Kidnapped and Wuthering Heights.\'94 \'93They\'92re all too old for you but Kidnapped.\'94 \'93Lorna Doone isn\'92t.\'94 \'93We\'92ll read it out loud,\'94 Nick said. \'93That way it lasts longer. But, Littless, you\'92ve made things sort of hard now and we better go. Those bastards can\'92t be as stupid as they act. Maybe it was just because they were drinking.\'94 Nick had rolled the pack now and tightened the straps and he sat back and put his moccasins on. He put his arm around his sister. \'93You sure you want to go?\'94 \'93I have to go, Nickie. Don\'92t be weak and indecisive now. I left the note.\'94 \'93All right,\'94 Nick said. \'93Let\'92s go. You can take the rifle until you get tired of it.\'94 \'93I\'92m all ready to go,\'94 his sister said. \'93Let me help you strap the pack.\'94 \'93You know you haven\'92t had any sleep at all and that we have to travel?\'94 \'93I know. I\'92m really like the snoring one at the table says he was.\'94 \'93Maybe he was that way once, too,\'94 Nick said. \'93But what you have to do is keep your feet in good shape. Do the moccasins chafe?\'94 \'93No. And my feet are tough from going barefoot all summer.\'94 \'93Mine are good, too,\'94 said Nick. \'93Come on. Let\'92s go.\'94 They started off walking on the soft hemlock needles and the trees were high and there was no brush between the tree trunks. They walked uphill and the moon came through the trees and showed Nick with the very big pack and his sister carrying the .22 rifle. When they were at the top of the hill they looked back and saw the lake in the moonlight. It was clear enough so they could see the dark point, and beyond were the high hills of the far shore. \'93We might as well say good-bye to it,\'94 Nick Adams said. \'93Good-bye, lake,\'94 Littless said. \'93I love you, too.\'94 They went down the hill and across the long field and through the orchard and then through a rail fence and into a field of stubble. Going through the stubble field they looked to the right and saw the slaughterhouse and the big barn in the hollow and the old log farmhouse on the other high land that overlooked the lake. The long road of Lombardy poplars that ran to the lake was in the moonlight. \'93Does it hurt your feet, Littless?\'94 Nick asked. \'93No,\'94 his sister said. \'93I came this way on account of the dogs,\'94 Nick said. \'93They\'92d shut up as soon as they knew it was us. But somebody might hear them bark.\'94 \'93I know,\'94 she said. \'93And as soon as they shut up afterwards they\'92d know it was us.\'94 Ahead they could see the dark of the rising line of hills beyond the road. They came to the end of one cut field of grain and crossed the little sunken creek that ran down to the springhouse. Then they climbed across the rise of another stubble field and there was another rail fence and the sandy road with the second-growth timber solid beyond it. \'93Wait till I climb over and I\'92ll help you,\'94 Nick said. \'93I want to look at the road.\'94 From the top of the fence he saw the roll of the country and the dark timber by their own house and the brightness of the lake in the moonlight Then he was looking at the road. \'93They can\'92t track us the way we\'92ve come and I don\'92t think they would notice tracks in this deep sand,\'94 he said to his sister. \'93We can keep to the two sides of the road if it isn\'92t too scratchy.\'94 \'93Nickie, honestly I don\'92t think they\'92re intelligent enough to track anybody. Look how they just waited for you to come back and then practically got drunk before supper and afterwards.\'94 \'93They came down to the dock,\'94 Nick said. \'93That was where I was. If you hadn\'92t told me they would have picked me up.\'94 \'93They didn\'92t have to be so intelligent to figure you would be on the big creek when our mother let them know you might have gone fishing. After I left they must have found all the boats were there and that would make them think you were fishing the creek. Everybody knows you usually fish below the grist mill and the cider mill. They were just slow thinking it out.\'94 \'93All right,\'94 Nick said. \'93But they were awfully close then.\'94 His sister handed him the rifle through the fence, butt toward him, and then crawled between the rails. She stood beside him on the road and he put his hand on her head and stroked it. \'93Are you awfully tired, Littless?\'94 \'93No. I\'92m fine. I\'92m too happy to be tired.\'94 \'93Until you\'92re too tired you walk in the sandy part of the road when; their horses made holes in the sand. It\'92s so soft and dry tracks won\'92t show and I\'92ll walk on the side where it\'92s hard.\'94 \'93I can walk on the side, too.\'94 \'93No. I don\'92t want you to get scratched.\'94 They climbed, but with constant small descents, toward the height of land that separated the two lakes. There was close, heavy, second-growth timber on both sides of the road and blackberry and raspberry bushes grew from the edge of the road to the timber. Ahead they could see the top of each hill as a notch in the timber. The moon was well on its way down now. \'93How do you feel, Littless?\'94 Nick asked his sister. \'93I feel wonderful. Nickie, is it always this nice when you run away from home?\'94 \'93No. Usually it\'92s lonesome.\'94 \'93How lonesome have you ever been?\'94 \'93Bad black lonesome. Awful.\'94 \'93Do you think you\'92ll get lonesome with me?\'94 \'93No.\'94 \'93You don\'92t mind you\'92re with me instead of going to Trudy?\'94 \'93What do you talk about her for all the time?\'94 \'93I haven\'92t been. Maybe you were thinking about her and you thought I was talking.\'94 \'93You\'92re too smart,\'94 Nick said. \'93I thought about her because you told me where she was and when I knew where she was I wondered what she would be doing and all that.\'94 \'93I guess I shouldn\'92t have come.\'94 \'93I told you that you shouldn\'92t have come.\'94 \'93Oh, hell,\'94 his sister said. \'93Are we going to be like the others and have fights? I\'92ll go back now. You don\'92t have to have me.\'94 \'93Shut up,\'94 Nick said. \'93Please don\'92t say that, Nickie. I\'92ll go back or I\'92ll stay just as you want. I\'92ll go back whenever you tell me to. But I won\'92t have fights. Haven\'92t we seen enough fights in families?\'94 \'93Yes,\'94 said Nick. \'93I know I forced you to take me. But I fixed it so you wouldn\'92t get in trouble about it. And I did keep them from catching you.\'94 They had reached the height of land and from here they could see the lake again although from here it looked narrow now and almost like a big river. \'93We cut across country here,\'94 Nick said. \'93Then we\'92ll hit that old logging road. Here\'92s where you go back from if you want to go back.\'94 He took off his pack and put it back into the timber and his sister leaned the rifle on it. \'93Sit down, Littless, and take a rest,\'94 he said. \'93We\'92re both tired.\'94 Nick lay with his head on the pack and his sister lay by him with her head on his shoulder. \'93I\'92m not going back, Nickie, unless you tell me to,\'94 she said. \'93I just don\'92t want fights. Promise me we won\'92t have fights?\'94 \'93Promise.\'94 \'93I won\'92t talk about Trudy.\'94 \'93The hell with Trudy.\'94 \'93I want to be useful and a good partner.\'94 \'93You are. You won\'92t mind if I get restless and mix it up with being lonesome?\'94 \'93No. We\'92ll take good care of each other and have fun. We can have a lovely time.\'94 \'93All right. We\'92ll start to have it now.\'94 \'93I\'92ve been having it all the time.\'94 \'93We just have one pretty hard stretch and then a really hard stretch and then we\'92ll be there. We might as well wait until it gets light to start. You go to sleep, Littless. Are you warm enough?\'94 \'93Oh, yes, Nickie. I\'92ve got my sweater.\'94 She curled up beside him and was asleep. In a little while Nick was sleeping, too. He slept for two hours until the morning light woke him. Nick had circled around through the second-growth timber until they had come onto the old logging road. \'93We couldn\'92t leave tracks going into it from the main road,\'94 he told his sister. The old road was so overgrown that he had to stoop many times to avoid hitting branches. \'93It\'92s like a tunnel,\'94 his sister said. \'93It opens up after a while.\'94 \'93Have I ever been here before?\'94 \'93No. This goes up way beyond where I ever took you hunting.\'94 \'93Does it come out on the secret place?\'94 \'93No, Littless. We have to go through some long bad slashings. Nobody gets in where we\'92re going.\'94 They kept on along the road and then took another road that was even more overgrown. Then they came out into a clearing. There was fireweed and brush in the clearing and the old cabins of the logging camp. They were very old and some of the roofs had fallen in. But there was a spring by the road and they both drank at it. The sun wasn\'92t up yet and they both felt hollow and empty in the early morning after the night of walking. \'93All this beyond was hemlock forest,\'94 Nick said. \'93They only cut it for the bark and they never used the logs.\'94 \'93But what happens to the road?\'94 \'93They must have cut up at the far end first and hauled and piled the bark by the road to snake it out. Then finally they cut everything right to the road and piled the bark here and then pulled out.\'94 \'93Is the secret place beyond all this slashing?\'94 \'93Yes. We go through the slashing and then some more road and then another slashing and then we come to virgin timber.\'94 \'93How did they leave it when they cut all this?\'94 \'93I don\'92t know. It belonged to somebody that wouldn\'92t sell, I guess. They stole a lot from the edges and paid stumpage on it. But the good part\'92s still there and there isn\'92t any passable road into it.\'94 \'93But why can\'92t people go down the creek? The creek has to come from somewhere?\'94 They were resting before they started the bad traveling through the slashing and Nick wanted to explain. \'93Look, Littless. The creek crosses the main road we were on and it goes through a farmer\'92s land. The farmer has it fenced for a pasture and he runs people off that want to fish. So they stop at the bridge on his land. On the section of the creek where they would hit if they cut across his pasture on the other side from his house he runs a bull. The bull is mean and he really runs everybody off. He\'92s the meanest bull I ever saw and he just stays there, mean all the time, and hunts for people. Then after him the farmer\'92s land ends and there\'92s a section of cedar swamp with sink holes and you\'92d have to know it to get through. And then, even if you know it, it\'92s bad. Below that is the secret place. We\'92re going in over the hills and sort of in the back way. Then below the secret place there\'92s real swamp. Bad swamp that you can\'92t get through. Now we better start the bad part.\'94 The bad part and the part that was worse were behind them now. Nick had climbed over many logs that were higher than his head and others that were up to his waist. He would take the rifle and lay it down on the top of the log and pull his sister up and then she would slide down on the far side or he would lower himself down and take the rifle and help the girl down. They went over and around piles of brush and it was hot in the slashing, and the pollen from the ragweed and the fireweed dusted the girl\'92s hair and made her sneeze. \'93Damn slashings,\'94 she said to Nick. They were resting on top of a big log ringed where they sat by the cutting of the barkpeelers. The ring was gray in the rotting gray log and all around were other long gray trunks and gray brush and branches with the brilliant and worthless seeds growing. \'93This is the last one,\'94 Nick said. \'93I hate them,\'94 his sister said. \'93And the damn weeds are like flowers in a tree cemetery if nobody took care of it.\'94 \'93You see why I didn\'92t want to try to make it in the dark.\'94 \'93We couldn\'92t.\'94 \'93No. And nobody\'92s going to chase us through here. Now we come into the good part.\'94 They came from the hot sun of the slashings into the shade of the great trees. The slashings had run up to the top of a ridge and over and then the forest began. They were walking on the brown forest floor now and it was springy and cool under their feet. There was no underbrush and the trunks of the trees rose sixty feet high before there were any branches. It was cool in the shade of the trees and high up in them Nick could hear the breeze that was rising. No sun came through as they walked and Nick knew there would be no sun through the high top branches until nearly noon. His sister put her hand in his and walked close to him. \'93I\'92m not scared, Nickie. But it makes me feel very strange.\'94 \'93Me, too,\'94 Nick said. \'93Always.\'94 \'93I never was in woods like these.\'94 \'93This is all the virgin timber left around here.\'94 \'93Do we go through it very long?\'94 \'93Quite a way.\'94 \'93I\'92d be afraid if I were alone.\'94 \'93It makes me feel strange. But I\'92m not afraid.\'94 \'93I said that first.\'94 \'93I know. Maybe we say it because we are afraid.\'94 \'93No. I\'92m not afraid because I\'92m with you. But I know I\'92d be afraid alone. Did you ever come here with anyone else?\'94 \'93No. Only by myself.\'94 \'93And you weren\'92t afraid?\'94 \'93No. But I always feel strange. Like the way I ought to feel in church.\'94 \'93Nickie, where we\'92re going to live isn\'92t as solemn as this, is it?\'94 \'93No. Don\'92t you worry. There it\'92s cheerful. You just enjoy this, Littless. This is good for you. This is the way forests were in the olden days. This is about the last good country there is left. Nobody gets in here ever.\'94 \'93I love the olden days. But I wouldn\'92t want it all this solemn.\'94 \'93It wasn\'92t all solemn. But the hemlock forests were.\'94 \'93It\'92s wonderful walking. I thought behind our house was wonderful. But this is better. Nickie, do you believe in God? You don\'92t have to answer if you don\'92t want to.\'94 \'93I don\'92t know.\'94 \'93All right. You don\'92t have to say it. But you don\'92t mind if I say my prayers at night?\'94 \'93No. I\'92ll remind you if you forget.\'94 \'93Thank you. Because this kind of woods makes me feel awfully religious.\'94 \'93That\'92s why they build cathedrals to be like this.\'94 \'93You\'92ve never seen a cathedral, have you?\'94 \'93No. But I\'92ve read about them and I can imagine them. This is the best one we have around here.\'94 \'93Do you think we can go to Europe some time and see cathedrals?\'94 \'93Sure we will. But first I have to get out of this trouble and learn how to make some money.\'94 \'93Do you think you\'92ll ever make money writing?\'94 \'93If I get good enough.\'94 \'93Couldn\'92t you maybe make it if you wrote cheerfuller things? That isn\'92t my opinion. Our mother said everything you write is morbid.\'94 \'93It\'92s too morbid for the St. Nicholas,\'94 Nick said. \'93They didn\'92t say it. But they didn\'92t like it.\'94 \'93But the St. Nicholas is our favorite magazine.\'94 \'93I know,\'94 said Nick. \'93But I\'92m too morbid for it already. And I\'92m not even grown-up.\'94 \'93When is a man grown-up? When he\'92s married?\'94 \'93No. Until you\'92re grown-up they send you to reform school. After you\'92re grown-up they send you to the penitentiary.\'94 \'93I\'92m glad you\'92re not grown-up then.\'94 \'93They\'92re not going to send me anywhere,\'94 Nick said. \'93And let\'92s not talk morbid even if I write morbid.\'94 \'93I didn\'92t say it was morbid.\'94 \'93I know. Everybody else does, though.\'94 \'93Let\'92s be cheerful, Nickie,\'94 his sister said. \'93These woods make us too solemn.\'94 \'93We\'92ll be out of them pretty soon,\'94 Nick told her. \'93Then you\'92ll see where we\'92re going to live. Are you hungry, Littless?\'94 \'93A little.\'94 \'93I\'92ll bet,\'94 Nick said. \'93We\'92ll eat a couple of apples.\'94 They were coming down a long hill when they saw sunlight ahead through the tree trunks. Now, at the edge of the timber, there was wintergreen growing and some partridgeberries and the forest floor began to be alive with growing things. Through the tree trunks they saw an open meadow that sloped to where white birches grew along the stream. Below the meadow and the line of the birches there was the dark green of a cedar swamp and far beyond the swamp there were dark blue hills. There was an arm of the lake between the swamp and the hills. But from here they could not see it. They only felt from the distances that it was there. \'93Here\'92s the spring,\'94 Nick said to his sister. \'93And here\'92s the stones where I camped before.\'94 \'93It\'92s a beautiful, beautiful place, Nickie,\'94 his sister said. \'93Can we see the lake, too?\'94 \'93There\'92s a place where we can see it. But it\'92s better to camp here. I\'92ll get some wood and we\'92ll make breakfast.\'94 \'93The firestones are very old.\'94 \'93It\'92s a very old place,\'94 Nick said. \'93The firestones are Indian.\'94 \'93How did you come to it straight through the woods with no trail and no blazes?\'94 \'93Didn\'92t you see the direction sticks on the three ridges?\'94 \'93No.\'94 \'93I\'92ll show them to you sometime.\'94 \'93Are they yours?\'94 \'93No. They\'92re from the old days.\'94 \'93Why didn\'92t you show them to me?\'94 \'93I don\'92t know,\'94 Nick said. \'93I was showing off I guess.\'94 \'93Nickie, they\'92ll never find us here.\'94 \'93I hope not,\'94 Nick said. At about the time that Nick and his sister were entering the first of the slashings the warden who was sleeping on the screen porch of the house that stood in the shade of the trees above the lake was wakened by the sun that, rising above the slope of open land behind the house, shone full on his face. During the night the warden had gotten up for a drink of water and when he had come back from the kitchen he had lain down on the floor with a cushion from one of the chairs for a pillow. Now he waked, realized where he was, and got to his feet. He had slept on his right side because he had a .38 Smith and Wesson revolver in a shoulder holster under his left armpit. Now, awake, he felt for the gun, looked away from the sun, which hurt his eyes, and went into the kitchen where he dipped up a drink of water from the pail beside the kitchen table. The hired girl was building a fire in the stove and the warden said to her, \'93What about some breakfast?\'94 \'93No breakfast,\'94 she said. She slept in a cabin out behind the house and had come into the kitchen a half an hour before. The sight of the warden lying on the floor of the screen porch and the nearly empty bottle of whiskey on the table had frightened and disgusted her. Then it had made her angry. \'93What do you mean, no breakfast?\'94 the warden said, still holding the dipper. \'93Just that.\'94 \'93Why?\'94 \'93Nothing to eat.\'94 \'93What about coffee?\'94 \'93No coffee.\'94 \'93Tea?\'94 \'93No tea. No bacon. No corn meal. No salt. No pepper. No coffee. No Borden\'92s canned cream. No Aunt Jemima buckwheat flour. No nothing.\'94 \'93What are you talking about? There was plenty to eat last night.\'94 \'93There isn\'92t now. Chipmunks must have carried it away.\'94 The warden from down state had gotten up when he heard them talking and had come into the kitchen. \'93How do you feel this morning?\'94 the hired girl asked him. The warden ignored the hired girl and said, \'93What is it, Evans?\'94 \'93That son of a bitch came in here last night and got himself a pack load of grub.\'94 \'93Don\'92t you swear in my kitchen,\'94 the hired girl said. \'93Come out here,\'94 The down-state warden said. They both went out on the screen porch and shut the kitchen door. \'93What does that mean, Evans?\'94 The down-state man pointed at the quart of Old Green River which had less than a quarter left in it. \'93How skunk-drunk were you?\'94 \'93I drank the same as you. I sat up by the table\'97\'94 \'93Doing what?\'94 \'93Waiting for the goddam Adams boy if he showed.\'94 \'93And drinking.\'94 \'93Not drinking. Then I got up and went in the kitchen and got a drink of water about half past four and I lay down here in front of the door to take it easier.\'94 \'93Why didn\'92t you lie down in front of the kitchen door?\'94 \'93I could see him better from here if he came.\'94 \'93So what happened?\'94 \'93He must have come in the kitchen, through a window maybe, and loaded that stuff.\'94 \'93Bullshit.\'94 \'93What were you doing?\'94 the local warden asked. \'93I was sleeping the same as you.\'94 \'93Okay. Let\'92s quit fighting about it. That doesn\'92t do any good.\'94 \'93Tell that hired girl to come out here.\'94 The hired girl came out and the down-state man said to her, \'93You tell Mrs. Adams we want to speak to her.\'94 The hired girl did not say anything but went into the main part of the house, shutting the door after her. \'93You better pick up the full and the empty bottles,\'94 the down-state man said. \'93There isn\'92t enough of this to do any good. You want a drink of it?\'94 \'93No thanks. I\'92ve got to work today.\'94 \'93I\'92ll take one,\'94 the down-state man said. \'93It hasn\'92t been shared right.\'94 \'93I didn\'92t drink any of it after you left,\'94 the local warden said doggedly. \'93Why do you keep on with that bullshit?\'94 \'93It isn\'92t bullshit.\'94 The down-state man put the bottle down. \'93All right,\'94 he said to the hired girl, who had opened and shut the door behind her. \'93What did she say?\'94 \'93She has a sick headache and she can\'92t see you. She says you have a warrant. She says for you to search the place if you want to and then go.\'94 \'93What did she say about the boy?\'94 \'93She hasn\'92t seen the boy and she doesn\'92t know anything about him.\'94 \'93Where are the other kids?\'94 \'93They\'92re visiting at Charlevoix.\'94 \'93Who are they visiting?\'94 \'93I don\'92t know. She doesn\'92t know. They went to the dance and they were going to stay over Sunday with friends.\'94 \'93Who was that kid that was around here yesterday?\'94 \'93I didn\'92t see any kid around here yesterday.\'94 \'93There was.\'94 \'93Maybe some friend of the children asking for them. Maybe some resorter\'92s kid. Was it a boy or a girl?\'94 \'93A girl about eleven or twelve. Brown hair and brown eyes. Freckles. Very tanned. Wearing overalls and a boy\'92s shirt. Barefooted.\'94 \'93Sounds like anybody,\'94 the girl said. \'93Did you say eleven or twelve years old?\'94 \'93Oh, shit,\'94 said the man from down state. \'93You can\'92t get anything out of these mossbacks.\'94 \'93If I\'92m a mossback what\'92s he?\'94 The hired girl looked at the local warden. \'93What\'92s Mr. Evans? His kids and me went to the same schoolhouse.\'94 \'93Who was the girl?\'94 Evans asked her. \'93Come on, Suzy. I can find out anyway.\'94 \'93I wouldn\'92t know,\'94 Suzy, the hired girl, said. \'93It seems like all kinds of people come by here now. I just feel like I\'92m in a big city.\'94 \'93You don\'92t want to get in any trouble, do you, Suzy?\'94 Evans said. \'93No, sir.\'94 \'93I mean it.\'94 \'93You don\'92t want to get in any trouble either, do you?\'94 Suzy asked him. Out at the barn after they were hitched up the down-state man said, \'93We didn\'92t do so good, did we?\'94 \'93He\'92s loose now,\'94 Evans said. \'93He\'92s got grub and he must have his rifle. But he\'92s still in the area. I can get him. Can you track?\'94 \'93No. Not really. Can you?\'94 \'93In snow,\'94 the other warden laughed. \'93But we don\'92t have to track. We have to think out where he\'92ll be.\'94 \'93He didn\'92t load up with all that stuff to go south. He\'92d just take a little something and head for the railway.\'94 \'93I couldn\'92t tell what was missing from the woodshed. But he had a big pack load from the kitchen. He\'92s heading in somewhere. I got to check on all his habits and his friends and where he used to go. You block him off at Charlevoix and Petoskey and St. Ignace and Sheboygan. Where would you go if you were him?\'94 \'93I\'92d go to the Upper Peninsula.\'94 \'93Me, too. He\'92s been up there, too. The ferry is the easiest place to pick him up. But there\'92s an awful big country between here and Sheboygan and he knows that country, too.\'94 \'93We better go down and see Packard. We were going to check that today.\'94 \'93What\'92s to prevent him going down by East Jordan and Grand Traverse?\'94 \'93Nothing. But that isn\'92t his country. He\'92ll go some place that he knows.\'94 Suzy came out when they were opening the gate in the fence. \'93Can I ride down to the store with you? I\'92ve got to get some groceries.\'94 \'93What makes you think we\'92re going to the store?\'94 \'93Yesterday you were talking about going to see Mr. Packard.\'94 \'93How are you going to get your groceries back?\'94 \'93I guess I can get a lift with somebody on the road or coming up the lake. This is Saturday.\'94 \'93All right. Climb up,\'94 the local warden said. \'93Thank you, Mr. Evans,\'94 Suzy said. At the general store and post office Evans hitched the team at the rack and he and the down-state man stood and talked before they went in. \'93I couldn\'92t say anything with that damned Suzy.\'94 \'93Sure.\'94 \'93Packard\'92s a fine man. There isn\'92t anybody better-liked in this country. You\'92d never get a conviction on that trout business against him. Nobody\'92s going to scare him and we don\'92t want to antagonize him.\'94 \'93Do you think he\'92ll cooperate?\'94 \'93Not if you act rough.\'94 \'93We\'92ll go see him.\'94 Inside the store Suzy had gone straight through past the glass showcases, the opened barrels, the boxes, the shelves of canned goods, seeing nothing nor anyone until she came to the post office with its lockboxes and its general delivery and stamp window. The window was down and she went straight on to the back of the store. Mr. Packard was opening a packing box with a crowbar. He looked at her and smiled. \'93Mr. John,\'94 the hired girl said, speaking very fast. \'93There\'92s two wardens coming in that\'92s after Nickie. He cleared out last night and his kid sister\'92s gone with him. Don\'92t let on about that. His mother knows it and it\'92s all right. Anyhow she isn\'92t going to say anything.\'94 \'93Did he take all your groceries?\'94 \'93Most of them.\'94 \'93You pick out what you need and make a list and I\'92ll check it over with you.\'94 \'93They\'92re coming in now.\'94 \'93You go out the back and come in the front again. I\'92ll go and talk to them.\'94 Suzy walked around the long frame building and climbed the front steps again. This time she noticed everything as she came in. She knew the Indians who had brought in the baskets and she knew the two Indian boys who were looking at the fishing tackle in the first showcases on the left. She knew all the patent medicines in the next case and who usually bought them. She had clerked one summer in the store and she knew what the penciled code letters and numbers meant that were on the cardboard boxes that held shoes, winter overshoes, wool socks, mittens, caps and sweaters. She knew what the baskets were worth that the Indians had brought in and that it was too late in the season for them to bring a good price. \'93Why did you bring them in so late, Mrs. Tabeshaw?\'94 she asked. \'93Too much fun Fourth of July,\'94 the Indian woman laughed. \'93How\'92s Billy?\'94 Suzy asked. \'93I don\'92t know, Suzy. I no see him four weeks now.\'94 \'93Why don\'92t you take them down to the hotel and try to sell them to the resorters?\'94 Suzy said. \'93Maybe,\'94 Mrs. Tabeshaw said. \'93I took once.\'94 \'93You ought to take them every day.\'94 \'93Long walk,\'94 Mrs. Tabeshaw said. While Suzy was talking to the people she knew and making a list of what she needed for the house the two wardens were in the back of the store with Mr. John Packard. Mr. John had gray-blue eyes and dark hair and a dark mustache and he always looked as though he had wandered into a general store by mistake. He had been away from northern Michigan once for eighteen years when he was a young man and he looked more like a peace officer or an honest gambler than a storekeeper. He had owned good saloons in his time and run them well. But when the country had been lumbered off he had stayed and bought farming land. Finally when the county had gone local option he had bought this store. He already owned the hotel. But he said he didn\'92t like a hotel without a bar and so he almost never went near it. Mrs. Packard ran the hotel. She was more ambitious than Mr. John and Mr. John said he didn\'92t want to waste time with people who had enough money to take a vacation anywhere in the country they wanted and then came to a hotel without a bar and spent their time sitting on the porch in rocking chairs. He called the resorters \'93change-of-lifers\'94 and he made fun of them to Mrs. Packard but she loved him and never minded when he teased her. \'93I don\'92t mind if you call them change-of-lifers,\'94 she told him one night in bed. \'93I had the damn thing but I\'92m still all the woman you can handle, aren\'92t I?\'94 She liked the resorters because some of them brought culture and Mr. John said she loved culture like a lumberjack loved Peerless, the great chewing tobacco. He really respected her love of culture because she said she loved it just like he loved good bonded whiskey and she said, \'93Packard, you don\'92t have to care about culture. I won\'92t bother you with it. But it makes me feel wonderful.\'94 Mr. John said she could have culture until hell wouldn\'92t hold it just so long as he never had to go to a Chautauqua or a Self-Betterment Course. He had been to camp meetings and a revival but he had never been to a Chautauqua. He said a camp meeting or a revival was bad enough but at least there was some sexual intercourse afterwards by those who got really aroused although he never knew anyone to pay their bills after a camp meeting or a revival. Mrs. Packard, he told Nick Adams, would get worried about the salvation of his immortal soul after she had been to a big revival by somebody like Gypsy Smith, that great evangelist, but finally it would turn out that he, Packard, looked like Gypsy Smith and everything would be fine finally. But a Chautauqua was something strange. Culture maybe was better than religion, Mr. John thought. But it was a cold proposition. Still they were crazy for it. He could see it was more than a fad, though. \'93It\'92s sure got a hold on them,\'94 he had told Nick Adams. \'93It must be sort of like the Holy Rollers only in the brain. You study it sometime and tell me what you think. You going to be a writer you ought to get in on it early. Don\'92t let them get too far ahead of you.\'94 Mr. John liked Nick Adams because he said he had original sin. Nick did not understand this but he was proud. \'93You\'92re going to have things to repent, boy,\'94 Mr. John had told Nick. \'93That\'92s one of the best things there is. You can always decide whether to repent them or not. But the thing is to have them.\'94 \'93I don\'92t want to do anything bad,\'94 Nick had said. \'93I don\'92t want you to,\'94 Mr. John had said. \'93But you\'92re alive and you\'92re going to do things. Don\'92t you lie and don\'92t you steal. Everybody has to lie. But you pick out somebody you never lie to.\'94 \'93I\'92ll pick out you.\'94 \'93That\'92s right. Don\'92t you ever lie to me no matter what and I won\'92t lie to you.\'94 \'93I\'92ll try,\'94 Nick had said. \'93That isn\'92t it,\'94 Mr. John said. \'93It has to be absolute.\'94 \'93All right,\'94 Nick said. \'93I\'92ll never lie to you.\'94 \'93What became of your girl?\'94 \'93Somebody said she was working up at the Soo.\'94 \'93She was a beautiful girl and I always liked her,\'94 Mr. John had said. \'93So did I,\'94 Nick said. \'93Try and not feel too bad about it.\'94 \'93I can\'92t help it,\'94 Nick said. \'93None of it was her fault. She\'92s just built that way. If I ran into her again I guess I\'92d get mixed up with her again.\'94 \'93Maybe not.\'94 \'93Maybe too. I\'92d try not to.\'94 Mr. John was thinking about Nick when he went out to the back counter where the two men were waiting for him. He looked them over as he stood there and he didn\'92t like either of them. He had always disliked the local man Evans and had no respect for him but he sensed that the downstate man was dangerous. He had not analyzed it yet but he saw the man had very flat eyes and a mouth that was tighter than a simple tobacco chewer\'92s mouth needed to be. He had a real elk\'92s tooth too on his watch chain. It was a really fine tusk from about a five-year-old bull. It was a beautiful tusk and Mr. John looked at it again and at the over-large bulge the man\'92s shoulder holster made under his coat. \'93Did you kill that bull with that cannon you\'92re carrying around under your arm?\'94 Mr. John asked the down-state man. The down-state man looked at Mr. John unappreciatively. \'93No,\'94 he said. \'93I killed that bull out in the thoroughfare country in Wyoming with a Winchester 45-70.\'94 \'93You\'92re a big-gun man, eh?\'94 Mr. John said. He looked under the counter. \'93Have big feet, too. Do you need that big a cannon when you go out hunting kids?\'94 \'93What do you mean, kids,\'94 the down-state man said. He was one ahead. \'93I mean the kid you\'92re looking for.\'94 \'93You said kids,\'94 the down-state man said. Mr. John moved in. It was necessary. \'93What\'92s Evans carry when he goes after a boy who\'92s licked his own boy twice? You must be heavily armed, Evans. That boy could lick you, too.\'94 \'93Why don\'92t you produce him and we could try it,\'94 Evans said. \'93You said kids, Mr. Jackson,\'94 the down-state man said. \'93What made you say that?\'94 \'93Looking at you, you cock-sucker,\'94 Mr. John said. \'93You splayfooted bastard.\'94 \'93Why don\'92t you come out from behind that counter if you want to talk like that?\'94 the down-state man said. \'93You\'92re talking to the United States Postmaster,\'94 Mr. John said. \'93You\'92re talking without witnesses except for Turd-Face Evans. I suppose you know why they call him Turd-Face. You can figure it out. You\'92re a detective.\'94 He was happy now. He had drawn the attack and he felt now as he used to feel in the old days before he made a living from feeding and bedding resorters who rocked in rustic chairs on the front porch of his hotel while they looked out over the lake. \'93Listen, Splayfoot, I remember you very well now. Don\'92t you remember me, Splayzey?\'94 The down-state man looked at him. But he did not remember him. \'93I remember you in Cheyenne the day Tom Horn was hanged,\'94 Mr. John told him. \'93You were one of the ones that framed him with promises from the association. Do you remember now? Who owned the saloon in Medicine Bow when you worked for the people that gave it to Tom? Is that why you ended up doing what you\'92re doing? Haven\'92t you got any memory?\'94 \'93When did you come back here?\'94 \'93Two years after they dropped Tom.\'94 \'93I\'92ll be goddamned.\'94 \'93Do you remember when I gave you that bull tusk when we were packing out from Greybull?\'94 \'93Sure. Listen, Jim, I got to get this kid.\'94 \'93My name\'92s John,\'94 Mr. John said. \'93John Packard. Come on in back and have a drink. You want to get to know this other character. His name is Crut-Face Evans. We used to call him Turd-Face. I just changed it now out of kindness.\'94 \'93Mr. John,\'94 said Mr. Evans. \'93Why don\'92t you be friendly and cooperative.\'94 \'93I just changed your name, didn\'92t I?\'94 said Mr. John. \'93What kind of cooperation do you boys want?\'94 In the back of the store Mr. John took a bottle off a low shelf in the corner and handed it to the down-state man. \'93Drink up, Splayzey,\'94 he said. \'93You look like you need it.\'94 They each took a drink and then Mr. John asked, \'93What are you after this kid for?\'94 \'93Violation of the game laws,\'94 the down-state man said. \'93What particular violation?\'94 \'93He killed a buck deer the twelfth of last month.\'94 \'93Two men with guns out after a boy because he killed a deer the twelfth of last month,\'94 Mr. John said. \'93There\'92ve been other violations.\'94 \'93But this is the one you\'92ve got proof of.\'94 \'93That\'92s about it.\'94 \'93What were the other violations?\'94 \'93Plenty.\'94 \'93But you haven\'92t got proof.\'94 \'93I didn\'92t say that,\'94 Evans said. \'93But we\'92ve got proof on this.\'94 \'93And the date was the twelfth?\'94 \'93That\'92s right,\'94 said Evans. \'93Why don\'92t you ask some questions instead of answering them?\'94 the down-state man said to his partner. Mr. John laughed. \'93Let him alone, Splayzey,\'94 he said. \'93I like to see that great brain work.\'94 \'93How well do you know the boy?\'94 the down-state man asked. \'93Pretty well.\'94 \'93Ever do any business with him?\'94 \'93He buys a little stuff here once in a while. Pays cash.\'94 \'93Do you have any idea where he\'92d head for?\'94 \'93He\'92s got folks in Oklahoma.\'94 \'93When did you see him last?\'94 Evans asked. \'93Come on, Evans,\'94 the down-state man said. \'93You\'92re wasting our time. Thanks for the drink, Jim.\'94 \'93John,\'94 Mr. John said. \'93What\'92s your name, Splayzey?\'94 \'93Porter. Henry J. Porter.\'94 \'93Splayzey, you\'92re not going to do any shooting at that boy.\'94 \'93I\'92m going to bring him in.\'94 \'93You always were a murderous bastard.\'94 \'93Come on, Evans,\'94 the down-state man said. \'93We\'92re wasting time in here.\'94 \'93You remember what I said about the shooting,\'94 Mr. John said very quietly. \'93I heard you,\'94 the down-state man said. The two men went out through the store and unhitched their light wagon and drove off. Mr. John watched them go up the road. Evans was driving and the down-state man was talking to him. \'93Henry J. Porter,\'94 Mr. John thought. \'93The only name I can remember for him is Splayzey. He had such big feet he had to have made-to-order boots. Splayfoot they called him. Then Splayzey. It was his tracks by the spring where that Nester\'92s boy was shot that they hung Tom for. Splayzey. Splayzey what? Maybe I never did know. Splayfoot Splayzey. Splayfoot Porter? No, it wasn\'92t Porter.\'94 \'93I\'92m sorry about those baskets, Mrs. Tabeshaw,\'94 he said. \'93It\'92s too late in the season now and they don\'92t carry over. But if you\'92d be patient with them down at the hotel you\'92d get rid of them.\'94 \'93You buy them, sell at the hotel,\'94 Mrs. Tabeshaw suggested. \'93No. They\'92d buy them better from you,\'94 Mr. John told her. \'93You\'92re a fine looking woman.\'94 \'93Long time ago,\'94 Mrs. Tabeshaw said. \'93Suzy, I\'92d like to see you,\'94 Mr. John said. In the back of the store he said, \'93Tell me about it.\'94 \'93I told you already. They came for Nickie and they waited for him to come home. His youngest sister let him know they were waiting for him. When they were sleeping drunk Nickie got his stuff and pulled out. He\'92s got grub for two weeks easy and he\'92s got his rifle and young Littless went with him.\'94 \'93Why did she go?\'94 \'93I don\'92t know, Mr. John. I guess she wanted to look after him and keep him from doing anything bad. You know him.\'94 \'93You live up by Evans\'92s. How much do you think he knows about the country Nick uses?\'94 \'93All he can. But I don\'92t know how much.\'94 \'93Where do you think they went?\'94 \'93I wouldn\'92t know, Mr. John. Nickie knows a lot of country.\'94 \'93That man with Evans is no good. He\'92s really bad.\'94 \'93He isn\'92t very smart.\'94 \'93He\'92s smarter than he acts. The booze has him down. But he\'92s smart and he\'92s bad, I used to know him.\'94 \'93What do you want me to do.\'94 \'93Nothing, Suzy. Let me know about anything.\'94 \'93I\'92ll add up my stuff, Mr. John, and you can check it.\'94 \'93How are you going home?\'94 \'93I can get the boat up to Henry\'92s Dock and then get a rowboat from the cottage and row down and get the stuff. Mr. John, what will they do with Nickie?\'94 \'93That\'92s what I\'92m worried about.\'94 \'93They were talking about getting him put in the reform school.\'94 \'93I wish he hadn\'92t killed that buck.\'94 \'93So does he. He told me he was reading in a book about how you could crease something with a bullet and it wouldn\'92t do any harm. It would just stun it and Nickie wanted to try it. He said it was a damn fool thing to do. But he wanted to try it. Then he hit the buck and broke its neck. He felt awful about it. He felt awful about trying to crease it in the first place.\'94 \'93I know.\'94 \'93Then it must have been Evans found the meat where he had it hung up in the old springhouse. Anyway somebody took it.\'94 \'93Who could have told Evans?\'94 \'93I think it was just that boy of his found it. He trails around after Nick all the time. You never see him. He could have seen Nickie kill the buck. That boy\'92s no good, Mr. John. But he sure can trail around after anybody. He\'92s liable to be in this room right now.\'94 \'93No,\'94 said Mr. John. \'93But he could be listening outside.\'94 \'93I think he\'92s after Nick by now,\'94 the girl said. \'93Did you hear them say anything about him at the house?\'94 \'93They never mentioned him,\'94 Suzy said. \'93Evans must have left him home to do the chores. I don\'92t think we have to worry about him till they get home to Evans\'92s.\'94 \'93I can row up the lake to home this afternoon and get one of our kids to let me know if Evans hires anyone to do the chores. That will mean he\'92s turned that boy loose.\'94 \'93Both the men are too old to trail anybody.\'94 \'93But that boy\'92s terrible, Mr. John, and he knows too much about Nickie and where he would go. He\'92d find them and then bring the men up to them.\'94 \'93Come in back of the post office,\'94 Mr. John said. Back of the filing slits and the lockboxes and the registry book and the flat stamp books in place along with the cancellation stamps and their pads, with the General Delivery window down, so that Suzy felt again the glory of office that had been hers when she had helped out in the store, Mr. John said, \'93Where do you think they went, Suzy?\'94 \'93I wouldn\'92t know, true. Somewhere not too far or he wouldn\'92t take Littless. Somewhere that\'92s really good or he wouldn\'92t take her. They know about the trout for trout dinners, too, Mr. John.\'94 \'93That boy?\'94 \'93Sure.\'94 \'93Maybe we better do something about the Evans boy.\'94 \'93I\'92d kill him. I\'92m pretty sure that\'92s why Littless went along. So Nickie wouldn\'92t kill him.\'94 \'93You fix it up so we keep track of them.\'94 \'93I will. But you have to think out something, Mr. John. Mrs. Adams, she\'92s just broke down. She just gets a sick headache like always. Here. You better take this letter.\'94 \'93You drop it in the box,\'94 Mr. John said. \'93That\'92s United States mail.\'94 \'93I wanted to kill them both last night when they were asleep.\'94 \'93No,\'94 Mr. John told her. \'93Don\'92t talk that way and don\'92t think that way.\'94 \'93Didn\'92t you ever want to kill anybody, Mr. John?\'94 \'93Yes. But it\'92s wrong and it doesn\'92t work out.\'94 \'93My father killed a man.\'94 \'93It didn\'92t do him any good.\'94 \'93He couldn\'92t help it.\'94 \'93You have to learn to help it,\'94 Mr. John said. \'93You get along now, Suzy.\'94 \'93I\'92ll see you tonight or in the morning,\'94 Suzy said. \'93I wish I still worked here, Mr. John.\'94 \'93So do I, Suzy. But Mrs. Packard doesn\'92t see it that way.\'94 \'93I know,\'94 said Suzy. \'93That\'92s the way everything is.\'94 Nick and his sister were lying on a browse bed under a lean-to that they had built together on the edge of the hemlock forest looking out over the slope of the hill to the cedar swamp and the blue hills beyond. \'93If it isn\'92t comfortable, Littless, we can feather in some more balsam on that hemlock. We\'92ll be tired tonight and this will do. But we can fix it up really good tomorrow.\'94 \'93It feels lovely,\'94 his sister said. \'93Lie loose and really feel it, Nickie.\'94 \'93It\'92s a pretty good camp,\'94 Nick said. \'93And it doesn\'92t show. We\'92ll only use little fires.\'94 \'93Would a fire show across to the hills?\'94 \'93It might,\'94 Nick said. \'93A fire shows a long way at night. But I\'92ll stake out a blanket behind it. That way it won\'92t show.\'94 \'93Nickie, wouldn\'92t it be nice if there wasn\'92t anyone after us and we were just here for fun?\'94 \'93Don\'92t start thinking that way so soon,\'94 Nick said. \'93We just started. Anyway if we were just here for fun we wouldn\'92t be here.\'94 \'93I\'92m sorry, Nickie.\'94 \'93You don\'92t need to be,\'94 Nick told her. \'93Look, Littless, I\'92m going down to get a few trout for supper.\'94 \'93Can I come?\'94 \'93No. You stay here and rest. You had a tough day. You read a while or just be quiet.\'94 \'93It was tough in the slashings, wasn\'92t it? I thought it was really hard. Did I do all right?\'94 \'93You did wonderfully and you were wonderful making camp. But you take it easy now.\'94 \'93Have we got a name for this camp?\'94 \'93Let\'92s call it Camp Number One,\'94 Nick said. He went down the hill toward the creek and when he had come almost to the bank he stopped and cut himself a willow stick about four feet long and trimmed it, leaving the bark on. He could see the clear fast water of the stream. It was narrow and deep and the banks were mossy here before the stream entered the swamp. The dark clear water flowed fast and its rushing made bulges on the surface. Nick did not go close to it as he knew it flowed under the banks and he did not want to frighten a fish by walking on the bank. There must be quite a few up here in the open now, he thought. It\'92s pretty late in the summer. He took a coil of silk line out of a tobacco pouch he carried in the left breast pocket of his shirt and cut a length that was not quite as long as the willow stick and fastened it to the tip where he had notched it lightly. Then he fastened on a hook that he took from the pouch; then holding the shank of the hook he tested the pull of the line and the bend of the willow. He laid his rod down now and went back to where the trunk of a small birch tree, dead for several years, lay on its side in the grove of birches that bordered the cedars by the stream. He rolled the log over and found several earthworms under it. They were not big. But they were red and lively and he put them in a flat round tin with holes punched in the top that had once held Copenhagen snuff. He put some dirt over them and rolled the log back. This was the third year he had found bait at this same place and he had always replaced the log so that it was as he had found it. Nobody knows how big this creek is, he thought. It picks up an awful volume of water in that bad swamp up above. Now he looked up the creek and down it and up the hill to the hemlock forest where the camp was. Then he walked to where he had left the pole with the line and the hook and baited the hook carefully and spat on it for good luck. Holding the pole and the line with the baited hook in his right hand he walked very carefully and gently toward the bank of the narrow, heavy-flowing stream. It was so narrow here that his willow pole would have spanned it and as he came close to the bank he heard the turbulent rush of the water. He stopped by the bank, out of sight of anything in the stream, and took two lead shot, split down one side, out of the tobacco pouch and bent them on the line about a foot above the hook, clinching them with his teeth. He swung the hook on which the two worms curled out over the water and dropped it gently in so that it sank, swirling in the fast water, and he lowered the tip of the willow pole to let the current take the line and the baited hook under the bank. He felt the line straighten and a sudden heavy firmness. He swung up on the pole and it bent almost double in his hand. He felt the throbbing, jerking pull that did not yield as he pulled. Then it yielded, rising in the water with the line. There was a heavy wildness of movement in the narrow, deep current, and the trout was torn out of the water and, flopping in the air, sailed over Nick\'92s shoulder and onto the bank behind him. Nick saw him shine in the sun and then he found him where he was tumbling in the ferns. He was strong and heavy in Nick\'92s hands and he had a pleasant smell and Nick saw how dark his back was and how brilliant his spots were colored and how bright the edges of his fins were. They were white on the edge with a black line behind and then there was the lovely golden sunset color of his belly. Nick held him in his right hand and he could just reach around him. He\'92s pretty big for the skillet, he thought. But I\'92ve hurt him and I have to kill him. He knocked the trout\'92s head sharply against the handle of his hunting knife and laid him against the trunk of a birch tree. \'93Damn,\'94 he said. \'93He\'92s a perfect size for Mrs. Packard and her trout dinners. But he\'92s pretty big for Littless and me.\'94 I better go upstream and find a shallow and try to get a couple of small ones, he thought. Damn, didn\'92t he feel like something when I horsed him out though? They can talk all they want about playing them but people that have never horsed them out don\'92t know what they can make you feel. What if it only lasts that long? It\'92s the time when there\'92s no give at all and then they start to come and what they do to you on the way up and into the air. This is a strange creek, he thought. It\'92s funny when you have to hunt for small ones. He found his pole where he had thrown it. The hook was bent and he straightened it. Then he picked up the heavy fish and started up the stream. There\'92s one shallow, pebbly part just after she comes out of the upper swamp, he thought. I can get a couple of small ones there. Littless might not like this big one. If she gets homesick I\'92ll have to take her back. I wonder what those old boys are doing now? I don\'92t think that goddam Evans kid knows about this place. That son of a bitch. I don\'92t think anybody fished in here but Indians. You should have been an Indian, he thought. It would have saved you a lot of trouble. He made his way up the creek, keeping back from the stream but once stepping onto a piece of bank where the stream flowed underground. A big trout broke out in a violence that made a slashing wake in the water. He was a trout so big that it hardly seemed he could turn in the stream. \'93When did you come up?\'94 Nick said when the fish had gone under the bank again further upstream. \'93Boy, what a trout.\'94 At the pebbly shallow stretch he caught two small trout. They were beautiful fish, too, firm and hard and he gutted the three fish and tossed the guts into the stream, then washed the trout carefully in the cold water and then wrapped them in a small faded sugar sack from his pocket. It\'92s a good thing that girl likes fish, he thought. I wish we could have picked some berries. I know where I can always get some, though. He started back up the hill slope toward their camp. The sun was down behind the hill and the weather was good. He looked out across the swamp and up in the sky, above where the arm of the lake would be, he saw a fish hawk flying. He came up to the lean-to very quietly and his sister did not hear him. She was lying on her side, reading. Seeing her, he spoke softly not to startle her. \'93What did you do, you monkey?\'94 She turned and looked at him and smiled and shook her head. \'93I cut it off,\'94 she said. \'93How?\'94 \'93With a scissors. How did you think?\'94 \'93How did you see to do it?\'94 \'93I just held it out and cut it. It\'92s easy. Do I look like a boy?\'94 \'93Like a wild boy of Borneo.\'94 \'93I couldn\'92t cut it like a Sunday-school boy. Does it look too wild?\'94 \'93No.\'94 \'93It\'92s very exciting,\'94 she said. \'93Now I\'92m your sister but I\'92m a boy, too. Do you think it will change me into a boy?\'94 \'93No.\'94 \'93I wish it would.\'94 \'93You\'92re crazy, Littless.\'94 \'93Maybe I am. Do I look like an idiot boy?\'94 \'93A little.\'94 \'93You can make it neater. You can see to cut it with a comb.\'94 \'93I\'92ll have to make it a little better but not much. Are you hungry, idiot brother?\'94 \'93Can\'92t I just be an un-idiot brother?\'94 \'93I don\'92t want to trade you for a brother.\'94 \'93You have to now, Nickie, don\'92t you see? It was something we had to do. I should have asked you but I knew it was something we had to do so I did it for a surprise.\'94 \'93I like it,\'94 Nick said. \'93The hell with everything. I like it very much.\'94 \'93Thank you, Nickie, so much. I was laying trying to rest like you said. But all I could do was imagine things to do for you. I was going to get you a chewing tobacco can full of knockout drops from some big saloon in some place like Sheboygan.\'94 \'93Who did you get them from?\'94 Nick was sitting down now and his sister sat on his lap and held her arms around his neck and rubbed her cropped head against his cheek. \'93I got them from the Queen of the Whores,\'94 she said. \'93And you know the name of the saloon?\'94 \'93No.\'94 \'93The Royal Ten Dollar Gold Piece Inn and Emporium.\'94 \'93What did you do there?\'94 \'93I was a whore\'92s assistant.\'94 \'93What\'92s a whore\'92s assistant do?\'94 \'93Oh, she carries the whore\'92s train when she walks and opens her carriage door and shows her to the right room. It\'92s like a lady in waiting I guess.\'94 \'93What\'92s she say to the whore?\'94 \'93She\'92ll say anything that comes into her mind as long as it\'92s polite.\'94 \'93Like what, brother?\'94 \'93Like, \'91Well ma\'92am, it must be pretty tiring on a hot day like today to be just a bird in a gilded cage.\'92 Things like that.\'94 \'93What\'92s the whore say?\'94 \'93She says, \'91Yes, indeedy. It sure is sweetness.\'92 Because this whore I was whore\'92s assistant to is of humble origin.\'94 \'93What kind of origin are you?\'94 \'93I\'92m the sister or the brother of a morbid writer and I\'92m delicately brought up. This makes me intensely desirable to the main whore and to all of her circle.\'94 \'93Did you get the knockout drops?\'94 \'93Of course. She said, \'91Hon, take these little old drops.\'92 \'91Thank you,\'92 I said! \'91Give my regards to your morbid brother and ask him to stop by the Emporium anytime he is at Sheboygan.\'92\'94 \'93Get off my lap,\'94 Nick said. \'93That\'92s just the way they talk in the Emporium,\'94 Littless said. \'93I have to get supper. Aren\'92t you hungry?\'94 \'93I\'92ll get supper.\'94 \'93No,\'94 Nick said. \'93You keep on talking.\'94 \'93Don\'92t you think we\'92re going to have fun, Nickie?\'94 \'93We\'92re having fun now.\'94 \'93Do you want me to tell you about the other thing I did for you?\'94 \'93You mean before you decided to do something practical and cut off your hair?\'94 \'93This was practical enough. Wait till you hear it. Can I kiss you while you\'92re making supper?\'94 \'93Wait a while and I\'92ll tell you. What was it you were going to do?\'94 \'93Well, I guess I was ruined morally last night when I stole the whiskey. Do you think you can be ruined morally by just one thing like that?\'94 \'93No. Anyway the bottle was open.\'94 \'93Yes. But I took the empty pint bottle and the quart bottle with the whiskey in it out to the kitchen and I poured the pint bottle full and some spilled on my hand and I licked it off and I thought that probably ruined me morally.\'94 \'93How\'92d it taste?\'94 \'93Awfully strong and funny and a little sick-making.\'94 \'93That wouldn\'92t ruin you morally.\'94 \'93Well, I\'92m glad because if I was ruined morally how could I exercise a good influence on you?\'94 \'93I don\'92t know,\'94 Nick said. \'93What was it you were going to do?\'94 He had his fire made and the skillet resting on it and he was laying strips of bacon in the skillet. His sister was watching and she had her hands folded across her knees and he watched her unclasp her hands and put one arm down and lean on it and put her legs out straight. She was practicing being a boy. \'93I\'92ve got to learn to put my hands right.\'94 \'93Keep them away from your head.\'94 \'93I know. It would be easy if there was some boy my own age to copy.\'94 \'93Copy me.\'94 \'93That would be natural, wouldn\'92t it? You won\'92t laugh, though?\'94 \'93Maybe.\'94 \'93Gee, I hope I won\'92t start to be a girl while we\'92re on the trip.\'94 \'93Don\'92t worry.\'94 \'93We have the same shoulders and the same kind of legs.\'94 \'93What was the other thing you were going to do?\'94 Nick was cooking the trout now. The bacon was curled brown on a fresh-cut chip of wood from the piece of fallen timber they were using for the fire and they both smelled the trout cooking in the bacon fat. Nick basted them and then turned them and basted them again. It was getting dark and he had rigged a piece of canvas behind the little fire so that it would not be seen. \'93What were you going to do?\'94 he asked again. Littless leaned forward and spat toward the fire. \'93How was that?\'94 \'93You missed the skillet anyway.\'94 \'93Oh, it\'92s pretty bad. I got it out of the Bible. I was going to take three spikes, one for each of them, and drive them into the temples of those two and that boy while they slept.\'94 \'93What were you going to drive them in with?\'94 \'93A muffled hammer.\'94 \'93How do you muffle a hammer?\'94 \'93I\'92d muffle it all right.\'94 \'93That nail thing\'92s pretty rough to try.\'94 \'93Well, that girl did it in the Bible and since I\'92ve seen armed men drunk and asleep and circulated among them at night and stolen their whiskey why shouldn\'92t I go the whole way, especially if I learned it in the Bible?\'94 \'93They didn\'92t have a muffled hammer in the Bible.\'94 \'93I guess I mixed it up with muffled oars.\'94 \'93Maybe. And we don\'92t want to kill anybody. That\'92s why you came along.\'94 \'93I know. But crime comes easy for you and me, Nickie. We\'92re different from the others. Then I thought if I was ruined morally I might as well be useful.\'94 \'93You\'92re crazy, Littless,\'94 he said. \'93Listen, does tea keep you awake?\'94 \'93I don\'92t know. I never had it at night. Only peppermint tea.\'94 \'93I\'92ll make it very weak and put canned cream in it.\'94 \'93I don\'92t need it, Nickie, if we\'92re short.\'94 \'93It will just give the milk a little taste.\'94 They were eating now. Nick had cut them each two slices of rye bread and he soaked one slice for each in the bacon fat in the skillet. They ate that and the trout that were crisp outside and cooked well and very tender inside. Then they put the trout skeletons in the fire and ate the bacon made in a sandwich with the other piece of bread, and then Littless drank the weak tea with the condensed milk in it and Nick tapped two slivers of wood into the holes he had punched in the can. \'93Did you have enough?\'94 \'93Plenty. The trout was wonderful and the bacon, too. Weren\'92t we lucky they had rye bread?\'94 \'93Eat an apple,\'94 he said. \'93Maybe we\'92ll have something good tomorrow. Maybe I should have made a bigger supper, Littless.\'94 \'93No. I had plenty.\'94 \'93You\'92re sure you\'92re not hungry?\'94 \'93No. I\'92m full. I\'92ve got some chocolate if you\'92d like some.\'94 \'93Where\'92d you get it?\'94 \'93From my savior.\'94 \'93Where?\'94 \'93My savior. Where I save everything.\'94 \'93Oh.\'94 \'93This is fresh. Some is the hard kind from the kitchen. We can start on that and save the other for sometime special. Look, my savior\'92s got a drawstring like a tobacco pouch. We can use it for nuggets and things like that. Do you think we\'92ll get out west, Nickie, on this trip?\'94 \'93I haven\'92t got it figured yet.\'94 \'93I\'92d like to get my savior packed full of nuggets worth sixteen dollars an ounce.\'94 Nick cleaned up the skillet and put the pack in at the head of the leanto. One blanket was spread over the browse bed and he put the other one on it and tucked it under on Littless\'92s side. He cleaned out the two-quart tin pail he\'92d made tea in and filled it with cold water from the spring. When he came back from the spring his sister was in the bed asleep, her head on the pillow she had made by rolling her blue jeans around her moccasins. He kissed her but she did not wake and he put on his old Mackinaw coat and felt in the packsack until he found the pint bottle of whiskey. He opened it and smelled it and it smelled very good. He dipped a half a cup of water out of the small pail he had brought from the spring and poured a little of the whiskey in it. Then he sat and sipped this very slowly, letting it stay under his tongue before he brought it slowly back over his tongue and swallowed it. He watched the small coals of the fire brighten with the light evening breeze and he tasted the whiskey and cold water and looked at the coals and thought. Then he finished the cup, dipped up some cold water and drank it and went to bed. The rifle was under his left leg and his head was on the good hard pillow his moccasins and the rolled trousers made and he pulled his side of the blanket tight around him and said his prayers and went to sleep. In the night he was cold and he spread his Mackinaw coat over his sister and rolled his back over closer to her so that there was more of his side of the blanket under him. He felt for the gun and tucked it under his leg again. The air was cold and sharp to breathe and he smelled the cut hemlock and balsam boughs. He had not realized how tired he was until the cold had waked him. Now he lay comfortable again feeling the warmth of his sister\'92s body against his back and he thought, I must take good care of her and keep her happy and get her back safely. He listened to her breathing and to the quiet of the night and then he was asleep again. It was just light enough to see the far hills beyond the swamp when he woke. He lay quietly and stretched the stiffness from his body. Then he sat up and pulled on his khaki trousers and put on his moccasins. He watched his sister sleeping with the collar of the warm Mackinaw coat under her chin and her high cheekbones and brown freckled skin light rose under the brown, her chopped-off hair showing the beautiful line of her head and emphasizing her straight nose and her close-set ears. He wished he could draw her face and he watched the way her long lashes lay on her cheeks. She looks like a small wild animal, he thought, and she sleeps like one. How would you say her head looks, he thought. I guess the nearest is that it looks as though someone had cut her hair off on a wooden block with an ax. It has a sort of a carved look. He loved his sister very much and she loved him too much. But, he thought, I guess those things straighten out. At least I hope so. There\'92s no sense waking anyone up, he thought. She must have been really tired if I\'92m as tired as I am. If we are all right here we are doing just what we should do: staying out of sight until things quiet down and that down-state man pulls out. I\'92ve got to feed her better, though. It\'92s a shame I couldn\'92t have outfitted really good. We\'92ve got a lot of things, though. The pack was heavy enough. But what we want to get today is berries. I better get a partridge or a couple if I can. We can get good mushrooms, too. We\'92ll have to be careful about the bacon but we won\'92t need it with the shortening. Maybe I fed her too light last night. She\'92s used to lots of milk, too, and sweet things. Don\'92t worry about it. We\'92ll feed good. It\'92s a good thing she likes trout. They were really good. Don\'92t worry about her. She\'92ll eat wonderfully. But, Nick, boy, you certainly didn\'92t feed her too much yesterday. Better to let her sleep than to wake her up now. There\'92s plenty for you to do. He started to get some things out of the pack very carefully and his sister smiled in her sleep. The brown skin came taut over her cheekbones when she smiled and the undercolor showed. She did not wake and he started to prepare to make breakfast and get the fire ready. There was plenty of wood cut and he built a very small fire and made tea while he waited to start breakfast. He drank his tea straight and ate three dried apricots and he tried to read in Lorna Doone. But he had read it and it did not have magic any more and he knew it was a loss on this trip. Late in the afternoon, when they had made camp, he had put some prunes in a tin pail to soak and he put them on the fire now to stew. In the pack he found the prepared buckwheat flour and he put it out with an enameled saucepan and a tin cup to mix the flour with water to make a batter. He had the tin of vegetable shortening and he cut a piece off the top of an empty flour sack and wrapped it around a cut stick and tied it tight with a piece of fish line. Littless had brought four old flour sacks and he was proud of her. He mixed the batter and put the skillet on the fire, greasing it with the shortening which he spread with the cloth on the stick. First it made the skillet shine darkly, then it sizzled and spat and he greased again and poured the batter smoothly and watched it bubble and then start to firm around the edges. He watched the rising and the forming of the texture and the gray color of the cake. He loosened it from the pan with a fresh clean chip and flipped it and caught it, the beautiful browned side up, the other sizzling. He could feel its weight but see it growing in buoyancy in the skillet. \'93Good morning,\'94 his sister said. \'93Did I sleep awfully late?\'94 \'93No, devil.\'94 She stood up with her shirt hanging down over her brown legs. \'93You\'92ve done everything.\'94 \'93No. I just started the cakes.\'94 \'93Doesn\'92t that one smell wonderful? I\'92ll go to the spring and wash and come and help.\'94 \'93Don\'92t wash in the spring.\'94 \'93I\'92m not white man,\'94 she said. She was gone behind the lean-to. \'93Where did you leave the soap?\'94 she asked. \'93It\'92s by the spring. There\'92s an empty lard bucket. Bring the butter, will you. It\'92s in the spring.\'94 \'93I\'92ll be right back.\'94 There was a half a pound of butter and she brought it wrapped in the oiled paper in the empty lard bucket. They ate the buckwheat cakes with butter and Log Cabin syrup out of a tin Log Cabin can. The top of the chimney unscrewed and the syrup poured from the chimney. They were both very hungry and the cakes were delicious with the butter melting on them and running down into the cut places with the syrup. They ate the prunes out of the tin cups and drank the juice. Then they drank tea from the same cups. \'93Prunes taste like a celebration,\'94 Littless said. \'93Think of that. How did you sleep, Nickie?\'94 \'93Good.\'94 \'93Thank you for putting the Mackinaw on me. Wasn\'92t it a lovely night, though?\'94 \'93Yes. Did you sleep all night?\'94 \'93I\'92m still asleep. Nickie, can we stay here always?\'94 \'93I don\'92t think so. You\'92d grow up and have to get married.\'94 \'93I\'92m going to get married to you anyway. I want to be your common-law wife. I read about it in the paper.\'94 \'93That\'92s where you read about the Unwritten Law.\'94 \'93Sure. I\'92m going to be your common-law wife under the Unwritten Law. Can\'92t I, Nickie?\'94 \'93No.\'94 \'93I will. I\'92ll surprise you. All you have to do is live a certain time as man and wife. I\'92ll get them to count this time now. It\'92s just like homesteading.\'94 \'93I won\'92t let you file.\'94 \'93You can\'92t help yourself. That\'92s the Unwritten Law. I\'92ve thought it out lots of times. I\'92ll get cards printed Mrs. Nick Adams, Cross Village, Michigan\'97common-law wife. I\'92ll hand these out to a few people openly each year until the time\'92s up.\'94 \'93I don\'92t think it would work.\'94 \'93I\'92ve got another scheme. We\'92ll have a couple of children while I\'92m a minor. Then you have to marry me under the Unwritten Law.\'94 \'93That\'92s not the Unwritten Law.\'94 \'93I get mixed up on it.\'94 \'93Anyway, nobody knows yet if it works.\'94 \'93It must,\'94 she said. \'93Mr. Thaw is counting on it.\'94 \'93Mr. Thaw might make a mistake.\'94 \'93Why Nickie, Mr. Thaw practically invented the Unwritten Law.\'94 \'93I thought it was his lawyer.\'94 \'93Well, Mr. Thaw put in the action anyway.\'94 \'93I don\'92t like Mr. Thaw,\'94 Nick Adams said. \'93That\'92s good. There\'92s things about him I don\'92t like either. But he certainly made the paper more interesting reading, didn\'92t he?\'94 \'93He gives the others something new to hate.\'94 \'93They hate Mr. Stanford White, too.\'94 \'93I think they\'92re jealous of both of them.\'94 \'93I believe that\'92s true, Nickie. Just like they\'92re jealous of us.\'94 \'93Think anybody is jealous of us now?\'94 \'93Not right now maybe. Our mother will think we\'92re fugitives from justice steeped in sin and iniquity. It\'92s a good thing she doesn\'92t know I got you that whiskey.\'94 \'93I tried it last night. It\'92s very good.\'94 \'93Oh, I\'92m glad. That\'92s the first whiskey I ever stole anywhere. Isn\'92t it wonderful that it\'92s good? I didn\'92t think anything about those people could be good.\'94 \'93I\'92ve got to think about them too much. Let\'92s not talk about them,\'94 Nick said. \'93All right. What are we going to do today?\'94 \'93What would you like to do?\'94 \'93I\'92d like to go to Mr. John\'92s store and get everything we need.\'94 \'93We can\'92t do that.\'94 \'93I know it. What do you plan to really do?\'94 \'93We ought to get some berries and I ought to get a partridge or some partridges. We\'92ve always got trout. But I don\'92t want you to get tired of trout.\'94 \'93Were you ever tired of trout?\'94 \'93No. But they say people get tired of them.\'94 \'93I wouldn\'92t get tired of them,\'94 Littless said. \'93You get tired of pike right away. But you never get tired of trout nor of perch. I know, Nickie. True.\'94 \'93You don\'92t get tired of walleyed pike either,\'94 Nick said. \'93Only of shovelnose. Boy, you sure get tired of them.\'94 \'93I don\'92t like the pitchfork bones,\'94 his sister said. \'93It\'92s a fish that surfeits you.\'94 \'93We\'92ll clean up here and I\'92ll find a place to cache the shells and we\'92ll make a trip for berries and try to get some birds.\'94 \'93I\'92ll bring two lard pails and a couple of the sacks,\'94 his sister said. \'93Littless,\'94 Nick said. \'93You remember about going to the bathroom, will you please?\'94 \'93Of course.\'94 \'93That\'92s important.\'94 \'93I know it. You remember, too.\'94 \'93I will.\'94 Nick went back into the timber and buried the carton of .22 long-rifles and the loose boxes of .22 shorts under the brown-needled floor at the base of a big hemlock. He put back the packed needles he had cut with his knife and made a small cut as far up as he could reach on the heavy bark of the tree. He took a bearing on the tree and then came out onto the hillside and walked down to the lean-to. It was a lovely morning now. The sky was high and clear blue and no clouds had come yet. Nick was happy with his sister and he thought, no matter how this thing comes out we might as well have a good happy time. He had already learned there was only one day at a time and that it was always the day you were in. It would be today until it was tonight and tomorrow would be today again. This was the main thing he had learned so far. Today was a good day and coming down to the camp with his rifle he was happy although their trouble was like a fishhook caught in his pocket that pricked him occasionally as he walked. They left the pack inside the lean-to. There were great odds against a bear bothering it in the daytime because any bear would be down below feeding on berries around the swamp. But Nick buried the bottle of whiskey up behind the spring. Littless was not back yet and Nick sat down on the log of the fallen tree they were using for firewood and checked his rifle. They were going after partridges so he pulled out the tube of the magazine and poured the long-rifle cartridges into his hand and then put them into a chamois pouch and filled the magazine with .22 shorts. They made less noise and would not tear the meat up if he could not get head shots. He was all ready now and wanted to start. Where\'92s that girl anyway, he thought. Then he thought, don\'92t get excited. You told her to take her time. Don\'92t get nervous. But he was nervous and it made him angry at himself. \'93Here I am,\'94 his sister said. \'93I\'92m sorry that I took so long. I went too far away, I guess.\'94 \'93You\'92re fine,\'94 Nick said. \'93Let\'92s go. You have the pails?\'94 \'93Uh huh, and covers, too.\'94 They started down across the hill to the creek. Nick looked carefully up the stream and along the hillside. His sister watched him. She had the pails in one of the sacks and carried it slung over her shoulder by the other sack. \'93Aren\'92t you taking a pole, Nickie?\'94 she asked him. \'93No. I\'92ll cut one if we fish.\'94 He moved ahead of his sister, holding the rifle in one hand, keeping a little way away from the stream. He was hunting now. \'93It\'92s a strange creek,\'94 his sister said. \'93It\'92s the biggest small stream I\'92ve ever known,\'94 Nick told her. \'93It\'92s deep and scary for a little stream.\'94 \'93It keeps having new springs,\'94 Nick said. \'93And it digs under the bank and it digs down. It\'92s awful cold water, Littless. Feel it.\'94 \'93Gee,\'94 she said. It was numbing cold. \'93The sun warms it a little,\'94 Nick said. \'93But not much. We\'92ll hunt along easy. There\'92s a berry patch down below.\'94 They went along down the creek. Nick was studying the banks. He had seen a mink\'92s track and shown it to his sister and they had seen tiny rubycrowned kinglets that were hunting insects and let the boy and girl come close as they moved sharply and delicately in the cedars. They had seen cedar waxwings so calm and gentle and distinguished moving in their lovely elegance with the magic wax touches on their wing coverts and their tails, and Littless had said, \'93They\'92re the most beautiful, Nickie. There couldn\'92t be more simply beautiful birds.\'94 \'93They\'92re built like your face,\'94 he said. \'93No, Nickie. Don\'92t make fun. Cedar waxwings make me so proud and happy that I cry.\'94 \'93When they wheel and light and then move so proud and friendly and gently,\'94 Nick said. They had gone on and suddenly Nick had raised the rifle and shot before his sister could see what he was looking at. Then she heard the sound of a big bird tossing and beating its wings on the ground. She saw Nick pumping the gun and shoot twice more and each time she heard another pounding of wings in the willow brush. Then there was the whirring noise of wings as large brown birds burst out of the willows and one bird flew only a little way and lit in the willows and with its crested head on one side looked down, bending the collar of feathers on his neck where the other birds were still thumping. The bird looking down from the red willow brush was beautiful, plump, heavy and looked so stupid with his head turned down and as Nick raised his rifle slowly, his sister whispered, \'93No, Nickie. Please no. We\'92ve got plenty.\'94 \'93All right,\'94 Nick said. \'93You want to take him?\'94 \'93No, Nickie. No.\'94 Nick went forward into the willows and picked up the three grouse and batted their heads against the butt of the rifle stock and laid them out on the moss. His sister felt them, warm and 7ullbreasted and beautifully feathered. \'93Wait till we eat them,\'94 Nick said. He was very happy. \'93I\'92m sorry for them now,\'94 his sister said. \'93They were enjoying the morning just like we were.\'94 She looked up at the grouse still in the tree. \'93It does look a little silly still staring down,\'94 she said. \'93This time of year the Indians call them fool hens. After they\'92ve been hunted they get smart. They\'92re not the real fool hens. Those never get smart. They\'92re willow grouse. These are ruffled grouse.\'94 \'93I hope we\'92ll get smart,\'94 his sister said. \'93Tell him to go away, Nickie.\'94 \'93You tell him.\'94 \'93Go away, partridge.\'94 The grouse did not move. Nick raised the rifle and the grouse looked at him. Nick knew he could not shoot the bird without making his sister sad and he made a noise blowing out so his tongue rattled and lips shook like a grouse bursting from cover and the bird looked at him fascinated. \'93We better not annoy him,\'94 Nick said. \'93I\'92m sorry, Nickie,\'94 his sister said. \'93He is stupid.\'94 \'93Wait till we eat them,\'94 Nick told her. \'93You\'92ll see why we hunt them.\'94 \'93Are they out of season, too?\'94 \'93Sure. But they are full grown and nobody but us would ever hunt them. I kill plenty of great horned owls and a great homed owl will kill a partridge every day if he can. They hunt all the time and they kill all the good birds.\'94 \'93He certainly could kill that one easy,\'94 his sister said. \'93I don\'92t feel bad any more. Do you want a bag to carry them in?\'94 \'93I\'92ll draw them and then pack them in the bag with some ferns. It isn\'92t so far to the berries now.\'94 They sat against one of the cedars and Nick opened the birds and took out their warm entrails and feeling the inside of the birds hot on his right hand he found the edible pans of the giblets and cleaned them and then washed them in the stream. When the birds were cleaned he smoothed their feathers and wrapped them in ferns and put them in the flour sack. He tied the mouth of the flour sack and two comers with a piece of fish line and slung it over his shoulder and then went back to the stream and dropped the entrails in and tossed some bright pieces of lung in to see the trout rise in the rapid heavy flow of the water. \'93They\'92d make good bait but we don\'92t need bait now,\'94 he said. \'93Our trout are all in the stream and we\'92ll take them when we need them.\'94 \'93This stream would make us rich if it was near home,\'94 his sister said. \'93It would be fished out then. This is the last really wild stream there is except in another awful country to get to beyond the foot of the lake. I never brought anybody here to fish.\'94 \'93Who ever fishes it?\'94 \'93Nobody I know.\'94 \'93Is it a virgin stream?\'94 \'93No. Indians fish it. But they\'92re gone now since they quit cutting hemlock bark and the camps closed down.\'94 \'93Does the Evans boy know?\'94 \'93Not him,\'94 Nick said. But then he thought about it and it made him feel sick. He could see the Evans boy. \'93What\'92re you thinking, Nickie?\'94 \'93I wasn\'92t thinking.\'94 \'93You were thinking. You tell me. We\'92re partners.\'94 \'93He might know,\'94 Nick said. \'93Goddam it. He might know.\'94 \'93But you don\'92t know that he knows?\'94 \'93No. That\'92s the trouble. If I did I\'92d get out.\'94 \'93Maybe he\'92s back at camp now,\'94 his sister said. \'93Don\'92t talk that way. Do you want to bring him?\'94 \'93No,\'94 she said. \'93Please, Nickie, I\'92m sorry I brought it up.\'94 \'93I\'92m not,\'94 Nick said. \'93I\'92m grateful. I knew it anyway. Only I\'92d stopped thinking about it. I have to think about things now the rest of my life.\'94 \'93You always thought about things.\'94 \'93Not like this.\'94 \'93Let\'92s go down and get the berries anyway,\'94 Littless said. \'93There isn\'92t anything we can do now to help, is there?\'94 \'93No,\'94 Nick said. \'93We\'92ll pick the berries and get back to camp.\'94 But Nick was trying to accept it now and think his way all the way through it. He must not get in a panic about it. Nothing had changed. Things were just as they were when he had decided to come here and let things blow over. The Evans boy could have followed him here before. But it was very unlikely. He could have followed him one time when he had gone in from the road through the Hodges\'92 place, but it was doubtful. Nobody had been fishing the stream. He could be sure of that. But the Evans boy did not care about fishing. \'93All that bastard cares about is trailing me,\'94 he said. \'93I know it, Nickie.\'94 \'93This is three times he\'92s made trouble.\'94 \'93I know it, Nickie. But don\'92t you kill him.\'94 That\'92s why she came along, Nick thought. That\'92s why she\'92s here. I can\'92t do it while she\'92s along. \'93I know I mustn\'92t kill him,\'94 he said. \'93There\'92s nothing we can do now. Let\'92s not talk about it.\'94 \'93As long as you don\'92t kill him,\'94 his sister said. \'93There\'92s nothing we can\'92t get out of and nothing that won\'92t blow over.\'94 \'93Let\'92s get back to camp,\'94 Nick said. \'93Without the berries?\'94 \'93We\'92ll get the berries another day.\'94 \'93Are you nervous, Nickie?\'94 \'93Yes. I\'92m sorry.\'94 \'93But what good will we be back at camp?\'94 \'93We\'92ll know quicker.\'94 \'93Can\'92t we just go along the way we were going?\'94 \'93Not now. I\'92m not scared, Littless. And don\'92t you be scared. But something\'92s made me nervous.\'94 Nick had cut up away from the stream into the edge of the timber and they were walking in the shade of the trees. They would come onto the camp now from above. From the timber they approached the camp carefully. Nick went ahead with the rifle. The camp had not been visited. \'93You stay here,\'94 Nick told his sister. \'93I\'92m going to have a look beyond.\'94 He left the sack with the birds and the berry pails with Littless and went well upstream. As soon as he was out of sight of his sister he changed the .22 shorts in the rifle for the long-rifles. I won\'92t kill him, he thought, but anyway it\'92s the right thing to do. He made a careful search of the country. He saw no sign of anyone and he went down to the stream and then downstream and back up to the camp. \'93I\'92m sorry I was nervous, Littless,\'94 he said. \'93We might as well have a good lunch and then we won\'92t have to worry about a fire showing at night.\'94 \'93I\'92m worried now, too,\'94 she said. \'93Don\'92t you be worried. It\'92s just like it was before.\'94 \'93But he drove us back from getting the berries without him even being here.\'94 \'93I know. But he\'92s not been here. Maybe he\'92s never even been to this creek ever. Maybe we\'92ll never see him again.\'94 \'93He makes me scared, Nickie, worse when he\'92s not here than when he\'92s here.\'94 \'93I know. But there isn\'92t any use being scared.\'94 \'93What are we going to do?\'94 \'93Well, we better wait to cook until night.\'94 \'93Why did you change?\'94 \'93He won\'92t be around here at night. He can\'92t come through the swamp in the dark. We don\'92t have to worry about him early in the mornings and late in the evening nor in the dark. We\'92ll have to be like the deer and only be out then. We\'92ll lay up in the daytime.\'94 \'93Maybe he\'92ll never come.\'94 \'93Sure. Maybe.\'94 \'93But I can stay though, can\'92t I?\'94 \'93I ought to get you home.\'94 \'93No. Please, Nickie. Who\'92s going to keep you from killing him then?\'94 \'93Listen, Littless, don\'92t ever talk about killing and remember I never talked about killing. There isn\'92t any killing nor ever going to be any.\'94 \'93True?\'94 \'93True.\'94 \'93I\'92m so glad.\'94 \'93Don\'92t even be that. Nobody ever talked about it.\'94 \'93 All right. I never thought about it nor spoke about it.\'94 \'93Me either.\'94 \'93Of course you didn\'92t.\'94 \'93I never even thought about it.\'94 No, he thought. You never even thought about it. Only all day and all night. But you mustn\'92t think about it in front of her because she can feel it because she is your sister and you love each other. \'93Are you hungry, Littless?\'94 \'93Not really.\'94 \'93Eat some of the hard chocolate and I\'92ll get some fresh water from the spring.\'94 \'93I don\'92t have to have anything.\'94 They looked across to where the big white clouds of the eleven o\'92clock breeze were coming up over the blue hills beyond the swamp. The sky was a high clear blue and the clouds came up white and detached themselves from behind the hills and moved high in the sky as the breeze freshened and the shadows of the clouds moved over the swamp and across the hillside. The wind blew in the trees now and was cool as they lay in the shade. The water from the spring was cold and fresh in the tin pail and the chocolate was not quite bitter but was hard and crunched as they chewed it. \'93It\'92s as good as the water in the spring where we were when we first saw them,\'94 his sister said. \'93It tastes even better after the chocolate.\'94 \'93We can cook if you\'92re hungry.\'94 \'93I\'92m not if you\'92re not.\'94 \'93I\'92m always hungry. I was a fool not to go on and get the berries.\'94 \'93No. You came back to find out.\'94 \'93Look, Littless. I know a good place back by the slashing we came through where we can get berries. I\'92ll cache everything and we can go in there through the timber all the way and pick a couple of pails full and then we\'92ll have them ahead for tomorrow. It isn\'92t a bad walk.\'94 \'93All right. But I\'92m fine.\'94 \'93Aren\'92t you hungry?\'94 \'93No. Not at all now after the chocolate. I\'92d love to just stay and read. We had a nice walk when we were hunting.\'94 \'93All right,\'94 Nick said. \'93Are you tired from yesterday?\'94 \'93Maybe a little.\'94 \'93We\'92ll take it easy. I\'92ll read Wuthering Heights.\'94 \'93Is it too old to read out loud to me?\'94 \'93No.\'94 \'93Will you read it?\'94 \'93Sure.\'94 An African Story HE WAS WAITING FORTHE MOON TO RISE and he felt Kibo\'92s hair rise under his hand as he stroked him to be quiet and they both watched and listened as the moon came up and gave them shadows. His arm was around the dog\'92s neck now and he could feel him shivering. All of the night sounds had stopped. They did not hear the elephant and David did not see him until the dog turned his head and seemed to settle into David. Then the elephant\'92s shadow covered them and he moved past making no noise at all and they smelled him in the light wind that came down from the mountain. He smelled strong but old and sour and when he was past David saw that the left tusk was so long it seemed to reach the ground. They waited but no other elephants came by and then David and the dog started off running in the moonlight. The dog kept close behind him and when David stopped the dog pressed his muzzle into the back of his knee. David had to see the bull again and they came up on him at the edge of the forest. He was traveling toward the mountain and slowly moving into the steady night breeze. David came close enough to see him cut off the moon again and to smell the sour oldness but he could not see the right tusk. He was afraid to work closer with the dog and he took him back with the wind and pushed him down against the base of a tree and tried to make him understand. He thought the dog would stay and he did but when David moved up toward the bulk of the elephant again he felt the wet muzzle against the hollow of his knee. The two of them followed the elephant until he came to an opening in the trees. He stood there moving his huge ears. His bulk was in the shadow but the moonlight would be on his head. David reached behind him and closed the dog\'92s jaws gently with his hand and then moved softly and unbreathing to his right along the edge of the night breeze, feeling it on his cheek, edging with it, never letting it get between him and the bulk until he could see the elephant\'92s head and the great ears slowly moving. The right tusk was as thick as his own thigh and it curved down almost to the ground. He and Kibo moved back, the wind on his neck now, and they backtracked out of the forest and into the open park country. The dog was ahead of him now and he stopped where David had left the two hunting spears by the trail when they had followed the elephant. He swung them over his shoulder in their thong and leather cup harness and, with his best spear that he had kept with him all the time in his hand, they started on the trail for the shamba. The moon was high now and he wondered why there was no drumming from the shamba. Something was strange if his father was there and there was no drumming. David had felt the tiredness as soon as they had picked up the trail again. For a long time he had been fresher and in better shape than the two men and impatient with their slow trailing and the regular halts his father made each hour on the hour. He could have moved ahead much faster than Juma and his father but when he started to tire they were the same as ever and at noon they took only the usual five-minute rest and he had seen that Juma was increasing the pace a little. Perhaps he wasn\'92t. Perhaps it had only seemed faster but the elephant dung was fresher now although it was not warm yet to the touch. Juma gave him the rifle to carry after they came upon the last pile of dung but after an hour he looked at him and took it back.They had been climbing steadily across a slope of the mountain but now the trail went down and from a gap in the forest he saw broken country ahead. \'93Here\'92s where the tough part starts, Davey,\'94 his father said. It was then he knew that he should have been sent back to the shamba once he had put them on the trail. Juma had known it for a long time. His father knew it now and there was nothing to be done. It was another of his mistakes and there was nothing to do now except gamble. David looked down at the big flattened circle of the print of the elephant\'92s foot and saw where the bracken had been pressed down and where a broken stem of a weed was drying. Juma picked it up and looked at the sun. Juma handed the broken weed to David\'92s father and his father rolled it in his fingers. David noticed the white flowers that were drooped and dying. But they still had not dried in the sun nor shed their petals. \'93It\'92s going to be a bitch,\'94 his father said. \'93Let\'92s get going.\'94 Late in the afternoon they were still tracking through the broken country. He had been sleepy now for a long time and as he watched the two men he knew that sleepiness was his real enemy and he followed their pace and tried to move through and out of the sleep that deadened him. The two men relieved each other tracking on the hour and the one who was in second place looked back at him at regular intervals to check if he was with them. When they made a dry camp at dark in the forest he went to sleep as soon as he sat down and woke with Juma holding his moccasins and feeling his bare feet for blisters. His father had spread his coat over him and was sitting by him with a piece of cold cooked meat and two biscuits. He offered him a water bottle with cold tea. \'93He\'92ll have to feed, Davey,\'94 his father said. \'93Your feet are in good shape. They\'92re as sound as Juma\'92s. Eat this slowly and drink some tea and go to sleep again. We haven\'92t any problems.\'94 \'93I\'92m sorry I was so sleepy.\'94 \'93You and Kibo hunted and traveled all last night. Why shouldn\'92t you be sleepy? You can have a little more meat if you want it.\'94 \'93I\'92m not hungry.\'94 \'93Good. We\'92re good for three days. We\'92ll hit water again tomorrow. Plenty of creeks come off the mountain.\'94 \'93Where\'92s he going?\'94 \'93Juma thinks he knows.\'94 \'93Isn\'92t it bad?\'94 \'93Not too bad, Davey.\'94 \'93I\'92m going back to sleep,\'94 David had said. \'93I don\'92t need your coat.\'94 \'93Juma and I are all right,\'94 his father said. \'93I always sleep warm you know.\'94 David was asleep even before his father said good night. Then he woke once with the moonlight on his face and he thought of the elephant with his great ears moving as he stood in the forest, his head hung down with the weight of the tusks. David thought then in the night that the hollow way he felt as he remembered him was from waking hungry. But it was not and he found that out in the next three days. The next day was very bad because long before noon he knew that it was not just the need for sleep that made the difference between a boy and men. For the first three hours he was fresher than they were and he asked Juma for the .303 rifle to carry but Juma shook his head. He did not smile and he had always been David\'92s best friend and had taught him to hunt. He offered it to me yesterday, David thought, and I\'92m in better shape today than I was then. He was, too, but by ten o\'92clock he knew the day would be as bad or worse than the day before. It was as silly for him to think that he could trail with his father as to think he could fight with him. He knew too that it was not just that they were men. They were professional hunters and he knew now that was why Juma would not even waste a smile. They knew everything the elephant had done, pointed out the signs of it to each other without speaking, and when the tracking became difficult his father always yielded to Juma. When they stopped to fill the water bottles at a stream his father said, \'93Just last the day out, Davey.\'94 Then when they were past the broken country and climbing toward the forest the tracks of the elephant turned off to the right onto an old elephant trail. He saw his father and Juma talking and when he got up to them Juma was looking back over the way they had come and then at a far distant stony island of hills in the dry country and seemed to be taking a bearing of this against the peaks of three far blue hills on the horizon. \'93Juma knows where he\'92s going now,\'94 his father explained. \'93He thought he knew before but then he dropped down into this stuff.\'94 He looked back at the country they had come through all day. \'93Where he\'92s headed now is pretty good going but we\'92ll have to climb.\'94 They climbed until it was dark and then made another dry camp. David killed two spur fowl with his slingshot out of a small flock that had walked across the trail just before the sunset. The birds had come into the old elephant trail to dust, walking neatly and plumply, and when the pebble broke the back of one and the bird began to jerk and toss with its wings thumping, another bird ran forward to peck at it and David pouched another pebble and pulled it back and sent it against the ribs of the second bird. As he ran forward to put his hand on it the other birds whirred off. Juma had looked back and smiled this time and David picked up the two birds, warm and plump and smoothly feathered, and knocked their heads against the handle of his hunting knife. Now where they were camped for the night his father said, \'93I\'92ve never seen that type of francolin quite so high. You did very well to get a double on them.\'94 Juma cooked the birds spitted on a stick over the coals of a very small fire. His father drank a whiskey and water from the cup top on his flask as they lay and watched Juma cook. Afterward Juma gave them each a breast with the heart in it and ate the two necks and backs and the legs himself. \'93It makes a great difference, Davey,\'94 his father said. \'93We\'92re very well off on rations now.\'94 \'93How far are we behind him?\'94 David asked. \'93We\'92re quite close,\'94 his father said. \'93It depends on whether he travels when the moon comes up. It\'92s an hour later tonight and two hours later than when you found him.\'94 \'93Why does Juma think he knows where he\'92s going?\'94 \'93He wounded him and killed his askari not too far from here.\'94 \'93When?\'94 \'93Five years ago, he says. That may mean anytime. When you were still a toto he says.\'94 \'93Has he been alone since then?\'94 \'93He says so. He hasn\'92t seen him. Only heard of him.\'94 \'93How big does he say he is?\'94 \'93Close to two hundred. Bigger than anything I\'92ve ever seen. He says there\'92s only been one greater elephant and he came from near here too.\'94 \'93I\'92d better get to sleep,\'94 David said. \'93I hope I\'92ll be better tomorrow.\'94 \'93You were splendid today,\'94 his father said. \'93I was very proud of you. So was Juma.\'94 In the night when he woke after the moon was up he was sure they were not proud of him except perhaps for his dexterity in killing the two birds. He had found the elephant at night and followed him to see that he had both of his tusks and then returned to find the two men and put them on the trail. David knew they were proud of that. But once the deadly following started he was useless to them and a danger to their success just as Kibo had been to him when he had gone up close to the elephant in the night, and he knew they must each have hated themselves for not having sent him back when there was time. The tusks of the elephant weighed two hundred pounds apiece. Ever since these tusks had grown beyond their normal size the elephant had been hunted for them and now the three of them would kill him for them. David was sure that they would kill him now because he, David, had lasted through the day and kept up after the pace had destroyed him by noon. So they probably were proud of him doing that. But he had brought nothing useful to the hunt and they would have been far better off without him. Many times during the day he had wished that he had never betrayed the elephant and in the afternoon he remembered wishing that he had never seen him. Awake in the moonlight he knew that was not true. The next morning they were following the spoor of the elephant on an old elephant trail that was a hard-packed worn road through the forest. It looked as though elephants had traveled it ever since the lava had cooled from the mountain and the trees had first grown tall and close. Juma was very confident and they moved fast. Both his father and Juma seemed very sure of themselves and the going on the elephant road was so easy that Juma gave him the .303 to carry as they went on through the broken light of the forest. Then they lost the trail in smoking piles of fresh dung and the flat round prints of a herd of elephants that had come onto the elephant road from the heavy forest on the left of the trail. Juma had taken the .303 from David angrily. It was afternoon before they worked up to the herd and around it, seeing the gray bulks through the trees and the movement of the big ears and the searching trunks coiling and uncoiling, hearing the crash of branches broken, the crash of trees pushed over, the rumbling in the bellies of the elephants and the slap and thud of the dung falling. They had found the trail of the old bull finally and when it turned off onto a smaller elephant road Juma had looked at David\'92s father and grinned showing his filed teeth and his father had nodded his head. They looked as though they had a dirty secret, just as they had looked when he had found them that night at the shamba. It was not very long before they came on the secret. It was off to the right in the forest and the tracks of the old bull led to it. It was a skull as high as David\'92s chest and white from the sun and the rain. There was a deep depression in the forehead and a ridge ran from between the bare white eye sockets and flared out in empty broken holes where the tusks had been chopped away. Juma pointed out where the great elephant they were trailing had stood while he looked down at the skull and where his trunk had moved it a little way from the place it had rested on the ground and where the points of his tusks had touched the ground beside it. He showed David the single hole in the big depression in the white bone of the forehead and then the four holes close together in the bone around the earhole. He grinned at David and at his father and took a .303 solid from his pocket and fitted the nose into the hole in the bone of the forehead. \'93Here is where Juma wounded the big bull,\'94 his father said. \'93This was his askari. His friend, really, because he was a big bull too. He charged and Juma knocked him down and finished him in the ear.\'94 Juma was pointing out the scattered bones and how the big bull had walked among them. Juma and David\'92s father were both very pleased with what they had found. \'93How long do you suppose he and his friend had been together?\'94 David asked his father. \'93I haven\'92t the faintest idea,\'94 his father said. \'93Ask Juma.\'94 \'93You ask him, please.\'94 His father and Juma spoke together and Juma had looked at David and laughed. \'93Probably four or five times your life, he says,\'94 David\'92s father told him. \'93He doesn\'92t know or care really.\'94 I care, David thought. I saw him in the moonlight and he was alone but I had Kibo. Kibo has me too. The bull wasn\'92t doing any harm and now we\'92ve tracked him to where he came to see his dead friend and now we\'92re going to kill him. It\'92s my fault. I betrayed him. Now Juma had worked out the trail and motioned to his father and they started on. My father doesn\'92t need to kill elephants to live, David thought. Juma would not have found him if I had not seen him. He had his chance at him and all he did was wound him and kill his friend. Kibo and I found him and I never should have told them and I should have kept him secret and had him always and let them stay drunk at the beer shamba. Juma was so drunk we could not wake him. I\'92m going to keep everything a secret always. I\'92ll never tell them anything again. If they kill him Juma will drink his share of the ivory or just buy himself another goddamn wife. Why didn\'92t you help the elephant when you could? All you had to do was not go on the second day. No, that wouldn\'92t have stopped them. Juma would have gone on. You never should have told them. Never, never tell them. Try and remember that. Never tell anyone anything ever. Never tell anyone anything again. His father waited for him to come up and said very gently, \'93He rested here. He\'92s not traveling as he was. We\'92ll be up on him anytime now.\'94 \'93Fuck elephant hunting,\'94 David had said very quietly. \'93What\'92s that?\'94 his father asked. \'93Fuck elephant hunting,\'94 David said softly. \'93Be careful you don\'92t fuck it up,\'94 his father had said to him and looked at him flatly. That\'92s one thing, David had thought. He\'92s not stupid. He knows all about it now and he will never trust me again. That\'92s good. I don\'92t want him to because I\'92ll never ever tell him or anybody anything again, never anything again. Never ever never. In the morning he was on the far slope of the mountain again. The elephant was no longer traveling as he had been but was moving aimlessly now, feeding occasionally and David had known they were getting close to him. He tried to remember how he had felt. He had no love for the elephant yet. He must remember that. He had only a sorrow that had come from his own tiredness that had brought an understanding of age. Through being too young, he had learned how it must be to be too old. He was lonesome for Kibo and thinking of how Juma killing the elephant\'92s friend had turned him against Juma and made the elephant his brother. He knew then how much it meant to him to have seen the elephant in the moonlight and to have followed him and come close to him in the clearing so that he had seen the great tusks. But he did not know that nothing would ever be as good as that again. Now he knew they would kill the elephant and there was nothing he could do about it. He had betrayed the elephant when he had gone back to tell them at the shamba. They would kill me and they would kill Kibo if we had ivory, he had thought, and known it was untrue. Probably the elephant is going to find where he was born and they\'92ll kill him there. That\'92s all they\'92d need to make it perfect. They\'92d like to have killed him where they killed his friend. That would be a big joke. That would have pleased them. The goddamned friend killers. They had moved to the edge of thick cover now and the elephant was close ahead. David could smell him and they could all hear him pulling down branches and the snapping that they made. His father put his hand on David\'92s shoulder to move him back and have him wait outside and then he took a big pinch of ashes from the pouch in his pocket and tossed it in the air. The ash barely slanted toward them as it fell and his father nodded at Juma and bent down to follow him into the thick cover. David watched their backs and their asses go in and out of sight. He could not hear them move. David had stood still and listened to the elephant feeding. He could smell him as strongly as he had the night in the moonlight when he had worked up close to him and had seen his wonderful tusks. Then as he stood there it was silent and he could not smell the elephant. Then there had been a high squealing and smashing and a shot by the .303, then the heavy rocking double report of his father\'92s .450, then the smashing and crashing had gone on going steadily away and he had gone into the heavy growth and found Juma shaken and bleeding from his forehead all down over his face and his father white and angry. \'93He went for Juma and knocked him over,\'94 his father had said. \'93Juma hit him in the head.\'94 \'93Where did you hit him?\'94 \'93Where I fucking well could,\'94 his father had said. \'93Get on the blood spoor.\'94 There was plenty of blood. One stream as high as David\'92s head that had squirted bright on trunks and leaves and vines and another much lower that was dark and foul with stomach content. \'93Lung and gut shot,\'94 his father said. \'93We\'92ll find him down or anchored\'97I hope the hell,\'94 he added. They found him anchored, in such suffering and despair that he could no longer move. He had crashed through the heavy cover where he had been feeding and crossed a path of open forest and David and his father ran along the heavily splashed blood trail. Then the elephant had gone on into thick forest and David had seen him ahead standing gray and huge against the trunk of a tree. David could only see his stern and then his father moved ahead and he followed and they came alongside the elephant as though he was a ship and David saw the blood coming from his flanks and running down his sides and then his father raised his rifle and fired and the elephant turned his head with the great tusks moving heavy and slow and looked at them and when his father fired the second barrel the elephant seemed to sway like a felled tree and came smashing down toward them. But he was not dead. He had been anchored and now he was down with his shoulder broken. He did not move but his eye was alive and looked at David. He had very long eyelashes and his eye was the most alive thing David had ever seen. \'93Shoot him in the earhole with the three oh three,\'94 his father said. \'93Go on.\'94 \'93You shoot him,\'94 David had said. Juma had come up limping and bloody, the skin of his forehead hanging down over his left eye, the bone of his nose showing and one ear torn and had taken the rifle from David without speaking and pushed the muzzle almost into the earhole and fired twice, jerking the bolt and driving it forward angrily. The eye of the elephant had opened wide on the first shot and then started to glaze and blood came out of the ear and ran in two bright streams down the wrinkled gray hide. It was different colored blood and David had thought I must remember that and he had but it had never been of any use to him. Now all the dignity and majesty and all the beauty were gone from the elephant and he was a huge wrinkled pile. \'93Well, we got him, Davey, thanks to you,\'94 his father had said. \'93Now we\'92d better get a fire going so I can put Juma back together again. Come here, you bloody Humpty Dumpty. Those tusks will keep.\'94 Juma had come to him grinning, bringing the tail of the elephant that had no hairs on it at all. They had made a dirty joke and then his father had begun to speak rapidly in Swahili. How far to water? How far will you have to go to get people to get those tusks out of here? How are you, you worthless old pig fucker? What have you broken? With the answers known his father had said, \'93You and I will go back to get the packs where we dropped them. Juma can get wood and have the fire ready. The medical kit is in my pack. We have to get the packs before it\'92s dark. He won\'92t infect. It\'92s not like claw wounds. Let\'92s go.\'94 That evening as David had sat by the fire he had looked at Juma with his stitched-up face and his broken ribs and wondered if the elephant had recognized him when he had tried to kill him. He hoped he had. The elephant was his hero now as his father had been for a long time and he had thought, I didn\'92t believe he could do it when he was so old and tired. He would have killed Juma, too. But he didn\'92t look at me as though he wanted to kill me. He only looked sad the same way I felt. He visited his old friend on the day he died. David remembered how the elephant lost all dignity as soon as his eye had ceased to be alive and how when his father and he had returned with the packs the elephant had already started to swell, even in the cool evening. There was no more true elephant; only the gray wrinkled swelling dead body and the huge mottled brown and yellow tusks that they had killed him for. The tusks were stained with dried blood and he scraped some off with his thumbnail like a dried piece of sealing wax and put it in the pocket of his shirt. That was all he took from the elephant except the beginning of the knowledge of loneliness. After the butchery his father tried to talk to him that night by the fire. \'93He was a murderer you know, Davey,\'94 he had said. \'93Juma says nobody knows how many people he has killed.\'94 \'93They were all trying to kill him, weren\'92t they?\'94 \'93Naturally,\'94 his father had said, \'93with that pair of tusks.\'94 \'93How could he be a murderer then?\'94 \'93Just as you like,\'94 his father had said. \'93I\'92m sorry you got so mixed up about him.\'94 \'93I wish he\'92d killed Juma,\'94 David said. \'93I think that\'92s carrying it a little far,\'94 his father said. \'93Juma\'92s your friend, you know.\'94 \'93Not any more.\'94 \'93No need to tell him so.\'94 \'93He knows it,\'94 David had said. \'93I think you misjudge him,\'94 his father said and they had left it there. Then when they were finally back safely with the tusks after all the things that had happened and the tusks were propped against the wall of the stick and mud house, leaning there with their points touching, the tusks so tall and thick that no one could believe them even when they touched them and no one, not even his father, could reach to the top of the bend where they curved in for the points to meet, there when Juma and his father and he were heroes and Kibo was a hero\'92s dog and the men who had carried the tusks were heroes, already slightly drunk heroes and to be drunker, his father had said, \'93Do you want to make peace, Davey?\'94 \'93All right,\'94 he said because he knew this was the start of the never telling that he had decided on. \'93I\'92m so glad,\'94 his father said. \'93It\'92s so much simpler and better.\'94 Then they sat on old men\'92s stools under the shade of the fig tree with the tusks against the wall of the hut and drank beer from gourd cups that were brought by a young girl and her younger brother, the servant of heroes, sitting in the dust by the heroic dog of a hero who held an old cockerel, newly promoted to the standing of the heroes\'92 favorite rooster. They sat there and drank beer while the big drum started and the ngoma began to build. Part III Previously Unpublished Fiction \'93A Train Trip\'94 represents the first four chapters of an unfinished and untitled Lardneresque novel. These scenes form a fine short story in the vein of \'93The Battler\'94 and \'93Fifty Grand.\'94 A Train Trip MY FATHER TOUCHED ME AND I WAS awake. He stood by the bed in the dark. I felt his hand on me and I was wide awake in my head and saw and felt things but all the rest of me was asleep. \'93Jimmy,\'94 he said, \'93are you awake?\'94 \'93Yes.\'94 \'93Get dressed then.\'94 \'93All right.\'94 He stood there and I wanted to move but I was really still asleep. \'93Get dressed, Jimmy.\'94 \'93All right,\'94 I said but I lay there. Then the sleep was gone and I moved out of bed. \'93Good boy,\'94 my father said. I stood on the rug and felt for my clothes at the foot of the bed. \'93They\'92re on the chair,\'94 my father said. \'93Put on your shoes and stockings too.\'94 He went out of the room. It was cold and complicated getting dressed; I had not worn shoes and stockings all summer and it was not pleasant putting them on. My father came back in the room and sat on the bed. \'93Do the shoes hurt?\'94 \'93They pinch.\'94 \'93If the shoe pinches put it on.\'94 \'93I\'92m putting it on.\'94 \'93We\'92ll get some other shoes,\'94 he said. \'93It\'92s not even a principle, Jimmy. It\'92s a proverb.\'94 \'93I see.\'94 \'93Like two against one is nigger fun. That\'92s a proverb too.\'94 \'93I like that one better than about the shoe,\'94 I said. \'93It\'92s not so true,\'94 he said. \'93That\'92s why you like it. The pleasanter proverbs aren\'92t so true.\'94 It was cold and I tied my other shoe and was finished dressing. \'93Would you like button shoes?\'94 my father asked. \'93I don\'92t care.\'94 \'93You can have them if you like,\'94 he said. \'93Everybody ought to have button shoes if they like.\'94 \'93I\'92m all ready.\'94 \'93Where are we going?\'94 \'93We\'92re going a long way.\'94 \'93Where to?\'94 \'93Canada.\'94 \'93We\'92ll go there too,\'94 he said. We went out to the kitchen. All the shutters were closed and there was a lamp on the table. In the middle of the room was a suitcase, a duffel bag, and two rucksacks. \'93Sit down at the table,\'94 my father said. He brought the frying pan and the coffee pot from the stove and sat down beside me and we ate ham and eggs and drank coffee with condensed cream in it. \'93Eat all you can.\'94 \'93I\'92m full.\'94 \'93Eat that other egg.\'94 He lifted the egg that was left in the pan with the pancake turner and put it on my plate. The edges were crisped from the bacon fat. I ate it and looked around the kitchen. If I was going away I wanted to remember it and say good-bye. In the corner the stove was rusty and half the lid was broken off the hot water reservoir. Above the stove there was a wooden-handled dish mop stuck in the edge of one of the rafters. My father threw it at a bat one evening. He left it there to remind him to get a new one and afterwards I think to remind him of the bat. I caught the bat in the landing net and kept him in a box with screen over it for a while. He had tiny eyes and tiny teeth and he kept himself folded in the box. We let him loose down on the shore of the lake in the dark and he flew out over the lake, flying very lightly and with flutters and flew down close over the water and then high and turned and flew over us and back into the trees in the dark. There were two kitchen tables, one that we ate on and one we did dishes on. They were both covered with oilcloth. There was a tin bucket for carrying lake water to fill the reservoir and a granite bucket for well water. There was a roller towel on the pantry door and dish towels on a rack over the stove. The broom was in the corner. The wood box was half full and all the pans were hanging against the wall. I looked all around the kitchen to remember it and I was awfully fond of it. \'93Well,\'94 said my father. \'93Do you think you\'92ll remember it?\'94 \'93I think so.\'94 \'93And what will you remember?\'94 \'93All the fun we\'92ve had.\'94 \'93Not just filling the wood box and hauling water?\'94 \'93That\'92s not hard.\'94 \'93No,\'94 he said. \'93That\'92s not hard. Aren\'92t you sorry to go away?\'94 \'93Not if we\'92re going to Canada.\'94 \'93We won\'92t stay there.\'94 \'93Won\'92t we stay there a while?\'94 \'93Not very long.\'94 \'93Where do we go then?\'94 \'93We\'92ll see.\'94 \'93I don\'92t care where we go,\'94 I said. \'93Try and keep that way,\'94 my father said. He lit a cigarette and offered me the package. \'93You don\'92t smoke?\'94 \'93No.\'94 \'93That\'92s good,\'94 he said. \'93Now you go outdoors and climb up on the ladder and put the bucket on the chimney and I\'92ll lock up.\'94 I went outside. It was still dark but along the edge of the hills it was lightening. The ladder was leaning against the roof and I found the old berry pail beside the woodshed and climbed the ladder. The leather soles of my shoes felt insecure and slippery on the rungs. I put the bucket over the top of the stove pipe to keep out the rain and to keep squirrels and chipmunks from climbing in. From the roof I looked down through the trees to the lake. Looking down on the other side was the woodshed roof, the fence and the hills. It was lighter than when I started to climb the ladder and it was cold and very early in the morning. I looked at the trees and the lake again to remember them and all around; at the hills in back and the woods off on the other side of the house and down again at the woodshed roof and I loved them all very much, the woodshed and the fence and the hills and the woods and I wished we were just going on a fishing trip and not going away. I heard the door shut and my father put all the bags out on the ground. Then he locked the door. I started down the ladder. \'93Jimmy,\'94 my father said. \'93Yes.\'94 \'93How is it up there on the roof?\'94 \'93I\'92m coming down.\'94 \'93Go on up. I\'92m coming up a minute,\'94 he said and climbed up very slowly and carefully. He looked all around the way I had done. \'93I don\'92t want to go either,\'94 he said. \'93Why do we have to go?\'94 \'93I don\'92t know,\'94 he said. \'93But we do.\'94 We climbed down the ladder and my father put it in the woodshed. We carried the things down to the dock. The motor boat was tied beside the dock. There was dew on the oilcloth cover, the engine, and the seats were wet with dew. I took off the cover and wiped the seats dry with a piece of waste. My father lifted down the bags from the dock and put them in the stem of the boat. Then I untied the bow line and the stern line and got back in the boat and held onto the dock. My father primed the engine through a petcock, rocking the wheel twice to suck the gasoline into the cylinder, then he cranked the flywheel over and the engine started. I held the boat to the dock with a twist of the line around a spile. The propeller churned up the water and the boat pulled against the dock making the water swirl through the spiles. \'93Let her go, Jimmy,\'94 my father said and I cast off the line and we started away from the dock. I saw the cottage through the trees with the windows shuttered. We were going straight out from the dock and the dock became shorter and the shoreline opened out. \'93You take her,\'94 my father said and I took the wheel and turned her out toward the point. I looked back and saw the beach and the dock and the boat house and the clump of balm of Gilead trees and then we were past the clearing and there was the cove with the mouth of the little stream coming into the lake and the bank high with hemlock trees and then the wooded shoreline of the point and then I had to watch for the sand bar that came way out beyond the point. There was deep water right up to the edge of the bar and I went along the edge of the channel and then out around the end seeing the channel bank slope off underwater and the pickerel weed growing underwater and sucked toward us by the propeller and then we were past the point and when I looked back the dock and the boat house were out of sight and there was only the point with three crows walking on the sand and an old log half covered in the sand and ahead the open lake. I heard the train and then saw it coming, first in a long curve looking very small and hurried and cut into little connected sections; moving with the hills and the hills moving with the trees behind it. I saw a puff of white from the engine and heard the whistle then another puff and heard the whistle again. It was still early in the morning and the train was on the other side of a tamarack swamp. There was running water on each side of the tracks, clear spring water with a brown swamp bottom and there was a mist over the center of the swamp. The trees that had been killed in the forest fires were grey and thin and dead in the mist but the mist was not foggy. It was cold and white and early morning. The train was coming straight down the tracks now getting closer and closer and bigger and bigger. I stepped back from the tracks and looked back at the lake with the two grocery stores and the boat houses, the long docks going out into the water and close by the station the gravelled patch around the artesian well where the water came straight up in the sunlight out of a brown water-film covered pipe. The water was splashing in the fountain basin, in back was the lake with a breeze coming up, there were woods along the shore and the boat we had come in was tied to the dock. The train stopped, the conductor and the brakeman got down and my father said good-bye to Fred Cuthbert who was going to take care of the boat in his boat house. \'93When will you be back?\'94 \'93I don\'92t know, Fred,\'94 my father said. \'93Give her a coat of paint in the spring.\'94 \'93Good-bye, Jimmy,\'94 Fred said. \'93Take good care of yourself.\'94 \'93Good-bye, Fred.\'94 We shook hands with Fred and got on the train. The conductor got on in the car ahead and the brakeman picked up the little box we had stepped up on and swung aboard the train as it started. Fred stood there on the station platform and I watched the station, Fred standing there, then walking away, the water splashing up out of the pipe in the sun and then ties and the swamp and the station very small and the lake looking different and from a new angle and then we were out of sight and crossed the Bear River and went through a cut and there were only the ties and the rails running back and fireweed growing beside the track and nothing more to look at to remember. It was all new now looking out from the platform and the woods had that new look of woods you do not know and if you passed a lake it was the same way. It was just a lake and new and not like a lake you had lived on. \'93You\'92ll get all cinders out here,\'94 my father said. \'93I guess we\'92d better go in,\'94 I said. I felt funny with so much new country. I suppose it really looked just the same as the country where we lived but it did not feel the same. I suppose every patch of hardwood with the leaves turning looks alike but when you see a beech woods from the train it does not make you happy; it only makes you want the woods where you live. But I did not know that then. I thought it would all be like where we lived only more of it and that it would be just the same and give you the same feeling, but it didn\'92t. We did not have anything to do with it. The hills were worse than the woods. Perhaps all the hills in Michigan look the same but up in the car I looked out of the window and I would see woods and swamps and we would cross a stream and it was very interesting and then we would pass hills with a farmhouse and the woods behind them and they were the same hills but they were different and everything was a little different. I suppose, of course, that hills that a railroad runs by can not be the same. But it was not the way I had thought it was going to be. But it was a fine day early in the fall. The air was fine with the window open and in a little while I was hungry. We had been up since before it was light and now it was almost half past eight. My father came back down the car to our seat. \'93How do you feel, Jimmy?\'94 \'93Hungry.\'94 He gave me a bar of chocolate and an apple out of his pocket. \'93Come on up to the smoker,\'94 he said and I followed him through the car and into the next one ahead. We sat down in a seat, my father inside next to the window. It was dirty in the smoker and the black leather on the seats had been burned by cinders. \'93Look at the seats opposite us,\'94 my father said to me without looking toward them. Opposite us two men sat side by side. The man on the inside was looking out the window and his right wrist was handcuffed to the left wrist of the man who sat beside him. In the seat ahead of them were two other men. I could only see their backs but they sat the same way. The two men who sat on the aisle were talking. \'93In a day coach,\'94 the man opposite us said. The man who sat in front of him spoke without turning around. \'93Well why didn\'92t we take the night train?\'94 \'93Did you want to sleep with these?\'94 \'93Sure. Why not?\'94 \'93It\'92s more comfortable this way.\'94 \'93The hell it\'92s comfortable.\'94 The man who was looking out of the window looked at us and winked. He was a little man and he wore a cap. There was a bandage around his head under the cap. The man he was handcuffed to wore a cap also but his neck was thick, he was dressed in a blue suit and he wore a cap as though it was only for travelling. The two men on the next seat were about the same size and build but the one on the aisle had the thicker neck. \'93How about something to smoke, Jack?\'94 the man who had winked said to my father over the shoulder of the man he was handcuffed to. The thick-necked man turned and looked at my father and me. The man who had winked smiled. My father took out a package of cigarettes. \'93You want to give him a cigarette?\'94 asked the guard. My father reached the package across the aisle. \'93I\'92ll give it to him,\'94 said the guard. He took the package in his free hand, squeezed it, put it in his handcuffed hand and holding it there took out a cigarette with his free hand and gave it to the man beside him. The man next to the window smiled at us and the guard lit the cigarette for him. \'93You\'92re awfully sweet to me,\'94 he said to the guard. The guard reached the package of cigarettes back across the aisle. \'93Have one,\'94 my father said. \'93No thanks. I\'92m chewing.\'94 \'93Making a long trip?\'94 \'93Chicago.\'94 \'93So are we.\'94 \'93It\'92s a fine town,\'94 the little man next to the window said. \'93I was there once.\'94 \'93I\'92ll say you were,\'94 the guard said. \'93I\'92ll say you were.\'94 We moved up and sat in the seat directly opposite them. The guard in front looked around. The man with him looked down at the floor. \'93What\'92s the trouble,\'94 asked my father. \'93These gentlemen are wanted for murder.\'94 The man next to the window winked at me. \'93Keep it clean,\'94 he said. \'93We\'92re all gentlemen here.\'94 \'93Who was killed?\'94 asked my father. \'93An Italian,\'94 said the guard. \'93Who?\'94 asked the little man very brightly. \'93An Italian,\'94 the guard repeated to my father. \'93Who killed him?\'94 asked the little man looking at the sergeant and opening his eyes wide. \'93You\'92re pretty funny,\'94 the guard said. \'93No sir,\'94 the little man said. \'93I just asked you, Sergeant, who killed this Italian.\'94 \'93He killed this Italian,\'94 the prisoner on the front seat said looking toward the detective. \'93He killed this Italian with his bow and arrow.\'94 \'93Cut it out,\'94 said the detective. \'93Sergeant,\'94 the little man said. \'93I did not kill this Italian. I would not kill an Italian. I do not know an Italian.\'94 \'93Write it down and use it against him,\'94 the prisoner on the front seat said. \'93Everything he says will be used against him. He did not kill this Italian.\'94 \'93Sergeant,\'94 asked the little man, \'93who did kill this Italian?\'94 \'93You did,\'94 said the detective. \'93Sergeant,\'94 said the little man. \'93That is a falsehood. I did not kill this Italian. I refuse to repeat it. I did not kill this Italian.\'94 \'93Everything he says must be used against him,\'94 said the other prisoner. \'93Sergeant, why did you kill this Italian?\'94 \'93It was an error, Sergeant,\'94 the little prisoner said. \'93It was a grave error. You should never have killed this Italian.\'94 \'93Or that Italian,\'94 the other prisoner said. \'93Shut to hell up the both of you,\'94 said the sergeant. \'93They\'92re dope heads,\'94 he said to my father. \'93They\'92re crazy as bed bugs.\'94 \'93Bed bugs?\'94 said the little man, his voice rising. \'93There are no bed bugs on me, Sergeant.\'94 \'93He comes from a long line of English earls,\'94 said the other prisoner. \'93Ask the senator there,\'94 he nodded at my father. \'93Ask the little man there,\'94 said the first prisoner. \'93He\'92s just George Washington\'92s age. He cannot tell a lie.\'94 \'93Speak up, boy,\'94 the big prisoner stared at me. \'93Cut it out,\'94 the guard said. \'93Yes, Sergeant,\'94 said the little prisoner. \'93Make him cut it out. He\'92s got no right to bring in the little lad.\'94 \'93I was a boy myself once,\'94 the big prisoner said. \'93Shut your goddam mouth,\'94 the guard said. \'93That\'92s right, Sergeant,\'94 began the little prisoner. \'93Shut your goddam mouth.\'94 The little prisoner winked at me. \'93Maybe we better go back to the other car,\'94 my father said to me. \'93See you later,\'94 he said to the two detectives. \'93Sure. See you at lunch.\'94 The other detective nodded. The little prisoner winked at us. He watched us go down the aisle. The other prisoner was looking out of the window. We walked back through the smoker to our seats in the other car. \'93Well, Jimmy, what do you make of that?\'94 \'93I don\'92t know.\'94 \'93Neither do I,\'94 said my father. At lunch at Cadillac we were sitting at the counter before they came in and they sat apart at a table. It was a good lunch. We ate chicken pot pie and I drank a glass of milk and ate a piece of blueberry pie with ice cream. The lunch room was crowded. Looking out the open door you could see the train. I sat on my stool at the lunch counter and watched the four of them eating together. The two prisoners ate with their left hands and the detectives with their right hands. When the detectives wanted to cut up their meat they used the fork in their left hand and that pulled the prisoner\'92s right hand toward them. Both the hands that were fastened together were on the table. I watched the little prisoner eating and he, without seeming to do it purposefully, made it very uncomfortable for the sergeant. He would jerk without seeming to know it and he held his hand so the sergeant\'92s left hand was always being pulled. The other two ate as comfortably as they could. They were not as interesting to watch anyway. \'93Why don\'92t you take them off while we eat?\'94 the little man said to the sergeant. The sergeant did not say anything. He was reaching for his coffee and as he picked it up the little man jerked and he spilled it. Without looking toward the little man the sergeant jerked out with his arm and the steel cuffs yanked the little man\'92s wrist and the sergeant\'92s wrist hit the little man in the face. \'93Son of a bitch,\'94 the little man said. His lip was cut and he sucked it. \'93Who?\'94 asked the sergeant. \'93Not you,\'94 said the little man. \'93Not you with me chained to you. Certainly not.\'94 The sergeant moved his wrist under the table and looked at the little man\'92s face. \'93What do you say?\'94 \'93Not a thing,\'94 said the little man. The sergeant looked at his face and then reached for his coffee again with his handcuffed hand. The little man\'92s right hand was pulled out across the table as the sergeant reached. The sergeant lifted the coffee cup and as he raised it to drink it it jerked out of his hand and the coffee spilled all over everything. The sergeant brought the handcuffs up into the little man\'92s face twice without looking at him. The little man\'92s face was bloody and he sucked his lip and looked at the table. \'93You got enough?\'94 \'93Yes,\'94 said the little man. \'93I\'92ve got plenty.\'94 \'93You feel quieter now?\'94 \'93Very quiet,\'94 said the little man. \'93How do you feel?\'94 \'93Wipe your face off,\'94 said the sergeant. \'93Your mouth is bloody.\'94 We saw them get on the train two at a time and we got on too and went to our seats. The other detective, not the one they called Sergeant but the one handcuffed to the big prisoner, had not taken any notice of what happened at the table. He had watched it but he had not seemed to notice it. The big prisoner had not said anything but had watched everything. There were cinders in the plush of our seat in the train and my father brushed the seat with a newspaper. The train started and I looked out the open window and tried to see Cadillac but you could not see much, only the lake, and factories and a fine smooth road along near the tracks. There were a lot of sawdust piles along the lake shore. \'93Don\'92t put your head out, Jimmy,\'94 my father said. I sat down. There was nothing much to see anyway. \'93That is the town Al Moegast came from,\'94 my father said. \'93Oh,\'94 I said. \'93Did you see what happened at the table?\'94 my father asked. \'93Yes.\'94 \'93Did you see everything?\'94 \'93I don\'92t know.\'94 \'93What do you think the little one made that trouble for?\'94 \'93I guess he wanted to make it uncomfortable so they would take the handcuffs off.\'94 \'93Did you see anything else?\'94 \'93I saw him get hit three times in the face.\'94 \'93Where did you watch when he hit him?\'94 \'93I watched his face. I watched the sergeant hit him.\'94 \'93Well,\'94 my father said. \'93While the sergeant hit him in the face with the handcuff on his right hand he picked up a steel-bladed knife off the table with his left hand and put it in his pocket.\'94 \'93I didn\'92t see.\'94 \'93No,\'94 my father said. \'93Every man has two hands, Jimmy. At least to start with. You ought to watch both of them if you\'92re going to see things.\'94 \'93What did the other two do?\'94 I asked. My father laughed. \'93I didn\'92t watch them,\'94 he said. We sat there in the train after lunch and I looked out of the window and watched the country. It did not mean so much now because there was so much else going on and I had seen a lot of country but I did not want to suggest that we go up into the smoker until my father said to. He was reading and I guess my restlessness disturbed him. \'93Don\'92t you ever read, Jimmy?\'94 he asked me. \'93Not much,\'94 I said. \'93I don\'92t have time.\'94 \'93What are you doing now?\'94 \'93Waiting.\'94 \'93Do you want to go up there?\'94 \'93Yes.\'94 \'93Do you think we ought to tell the sergeant\'94 \'93No,\'94 I said. \'93It\'92s an ethical problem,\'94 he said and shut the book. \'93Do you want to tell him?\'94 I asked. \'93No,\'94 my father said. \'93Besides a man is held to be innocent until the law has proved him guilty. He may not have killed that Italian.\'94 \'93Are they dope fiends?\'94 \'93I don\'92t know whether they use dope or not,\'94 my father said. \'93Many people use it. But using cocaine or morphine or heroin doesn\'92t make people talk the way they talked.\'94 \'93What does?\'94 \'93I don\'92t know,\'94 said my father. \'93What makes anyone talk the way they do?\'94 \'93Let\'92s go up there,\'94 I said. My father got the suitcase down, opened it up and put the book in it and something out of his pocket. He locked the suitcase and we went up to the smoker. Walking along the aisle of the smoker I saw the two detectives and the two prisoners sitting quietly. We sat down opposite them. The little man\'92s cap was down over the bandage around his head and his lips were swollen. He was awake and looking out of the window. The sergeant was sleepy, his eyes would shut and then open, stay open a while and then shut. His face looked very heavy and sleepy. Ahead on the next seat the other two were both sleepy. The prisoner leaned toward the window side of the seat and the detective toward the aisle. They were not comfortable that way and as they got sleepier, they both leaned toward each other. The little man looked at the sergeant and then across at us. He did not seem to recognize us and looked all down the car. He seemed to be looking at all the men in the smoker. There were not very many passengers. Then he looked at the sergeant again. My father had taken another book out of his pocket and was reading. \'93Sergeant,\'94 the little man said. The sergeant held his eyes open and looked at the prisoner. \'93I got to go to the can,\'94 the little man said. \'93Not now,\'94 the sergeant shut his eyes. \'93Listen, Sergeant,\'94 the little man said. \'93Didn\'92t you ever have to go to the can?\'94 \'93Not now,\'94 the sergeant said. He did not want to leave the half asleep half awake state he was in. He was breathing slowly and heavily but when he would open his eyes his breathing would stop. The little man looked across at us but did not seem to recognize us. \'93Sergeant,\'94 he said. The sergeant did not answer. The little man ran his tongue over his lips. \'93Listen Sergeant, I got to go to the can.\'94 \'93All right,\'94 the sergeant said. He stood up and the little man stood up and they walked down the aisle. I looked at my father. \'93Go on,\'94 he said, \'93if you want to.\'94 I walked after them down the aisle. They were standing at the door. \'93I want to go in alone,\'94 the prisoner said. \'93No you don\'92t.\'94 \'93Go on. Let me go in alone.\'94 \'93No.\'94 \'93Why not? You can keep the door locked.\'94 \'93I won\'92t take them off.\'94 \'93Go on, Sergeant. Let me go in alone.\'94 \'93We\'92ll take a look,\'94 the sergeant said. They went inside and the sergeant shut the door. I was sitting on the seat opposite the door to the toilet. I looked down the aisle at my father. Inside I could hear them talking but not what they were saying. Someone turned the handle inside the door to open it and then I heard something fall against it and hit twice against the door. Then it fell on the floor. Then there was a noise as when you pick a rabbit up by the hind legs and slap its head against a stump to kill it. I was looking at my father and motioning. There was that noise three times and then I saw something come out from under the door. It was blood and it came out very slowly and smoothly. I ran down the aisle to my father. \'93There\'92s blood coming out under the door.\'94 \'93Sit down there,\'94 my father said. He stood up, went across the aisle and touched the detective on the shoulder. The detective looked up. \'93Your partner went up to the washroom,\'94 my father said. \'93Sure,\'94 said the detective. \'93Why not?\'94 \'93My boy went up there and said he saw blood coming out from under the door.\'94 The detective jumped up and jerked the other prisoner over on the seat. The other prisoner looked at my father. \'93Come on,\'94 the detective said. The prisoner sat there. \'93Come on,\'94 the detective said and the prisoner did not move. \'93Come on or I\'92ll blow your can off.\'94 \'93What\'92s it all about, your excellency?\'94 the prisoner asked. \'93Come on, you bastard,\'94 the detective said. \'93Aw, keep it clean,\'94 the prisoner said. They were going down the aisle, the detective ahead holding a gun in his right hand and the prisoner handcuffed to him hanging back. The passengers were standing up to see. \'93Stay where you are,\'94 my father said. He took hold of me by the arm. The detective saw the blood under the door. He looked around at the prisoner. The prisoner saw him looking and stood still. \'93No,\'94 he said. The detective holding his gun in his right hand jerked down hard with his left hand and the prisoner slipped forward on his knees. \'93No,\'94 he said. The detective watching the door and the prisoner shifted the revolver so he held it by the muzzle and hit the prisoner suddenly at the side of the head. The prisoner slipped down with his head and hands on the floor. \'93No,\'94 he said shaking his head on the floor. \'93No. No. No.\'94 The detective hit him again and then again and he was quiet. He lay on the floor on his face with his head bent down on his chest. Watching the door, the detective laid the revolver down on the floor and leaning over unlocked the handcuff from the wrist of the prisoner. Then he picked up the revolver and stood up. Holding the revolver in his right hand he pulled the cord with his left to stop the train. Then he reached for the handle of the door. The train was starting to slow. \'93Get away from that door,\'94 we heard someone say inside the door. \'93Open it up,\'94 said the detective and stepped back. \'93Al,\'94 the voice said. \'93Al, are you all right?\'94 The detective stood just to one side of the door. The train was slowing down. \'93Al,\'94 said the voice again. \'93Answer me if you\'92re all right.\'94 There was no answer. The train stopped. The brakeman opened the door. \'93What the hell?\'94 he said. He looked at the man on the floor, the blood and the detective holding the revolver. The conductor was coming down from the other end of the car. \'93There\'92s a fellow in there that\'92s killed a man,\'94 the detective said. \'93The hell there is. He\'92s gone out the window,\'94 said the brakeman. \'93Watch that man,\'94 said the detective. He opened the door to the platform. I went across the aisle and looked out the window. Along the tracks there was a fence. Beyond the fence was the woods. I looked up and down the tracks. The detective came running by; then ran back. There was no one in sight. The detective came back in the car and they opened the door of the washroom. The door would not swing open because the sergeant was lying across it on the floor. The window was open about halfway. The sergeant was still breathing. They picked him up and carried him out into the car and they picked up the prisoner and put him in a seat. The detective put the handcuff through the handle of a big suitcase. Nobody seemed to know what to do or whether to look after the sergeant or try and find the little man or what. Everybody had gotten out of the train and looked down the tracks and in the edge of the woods. The brakeman had seen the little man run across the tracks and into the woods. The detective went into the woods a couple of times and then came out. The prisoner had taken the sergeant\'92s gun and nobody seemed to want to go very far into the woods after him. Finally they started the train to get to a station where they could send for the state constabulary and send out a description of the little man. My father helped them with the sergeant. He washed off the wound, it was between the collarbone and the neck, and sent me to get paper and towels from the washroom and folded them over and made a plug for it and tied it tight in with a sleeve from the sergeant\'92s shirt. They laid him out as comfortably as they could and my father washed off his face. His head had been banged against the floor of the washroom and he was still unconscious but my father said the wound was not serious. At the station they took him off and the detective took the other prisoner off too. The other prisoner\'92s face was white and he had a bruised bump on the side of his head. He looked silly when they took him off and seemed anxious to move very fast to do whatever they told him. My father came back in the car from helping them with the sergeant. They had put him in a motor truck that was at the station and were going to drive him to a hospital. The detective was sending wires. We were standing on the platform and the train started and I saw the prisoner standing there, leaning the back of his head against the wall of the station. He was crying. I felt pretty bad about everything and we went in the smoker. The brakeman had a bucket and a bunch of waste and was mopping up and washing where the blood had been. \'93How was he, Doc?\'94 he said to my father. \'93I\'92m not a doctor,\'94 my father said. \'93But I think he\'92ll be all right.\'94 \'93Two big dicks,\'94 said the brakeman. \'93And they couldn\'92t handle that one little shrimp.\'94 \'93Did you see him get out the window?\'94 \'93Sure,\'94 said the brakeman. \'93Or I saw him just after he lit on the tracks.\'94 \'93Did you recognize him?\'94 \'93No. Not when I first saw him. How do you think he stabbed him, Doc?\'94 \'93He must have jumped up on him from behind,\'94 my father said. \'93Wonder where he got the knife?\'94 \'93I don\'92t know,\'94 said my father. \'93That other poor boob,\'94 said the brakeman. \'93He never even tried to make a break.\'94 \'93No.\'94 \'93That detective gave him his though. Did you see it, Doc?\'94 \'93Yes.\'94 \'93That poor boob,\'94 the brakeman said. It was damp and clean where he had washed. We went back to our seats in the other car. My father sat and did not say anything and I wondered what he was thinking. \'93Well, Jimmy,\'94 he said, after a while. \'93Yes.\'94 \'93What do you think of it all now?\'94 \'93I don\'92t know.\'94 \'93Neither do I,\'94 said my father. \'93Do you feel bad?\'94 \'93Yes.\'94 \'93So do I. Were you scared?\'94 \'93When I saw the blood,\'94 I said. \'93And when he hit the prisoner.\'94 \'93That\'92s healthy.\'94 \'93Were you scared?\'94 \'93No,\'94 my father said. \'93What was the blood like?\'94 I thought a minute. \'93It was thick and smooth.\'94 \'93Blood is thicker than water,\'94 my father said. \'93That\'92s the first proverb you run up against when you lead an active life.\'94 \'93It doesn\'92t mean that,\'94 I said. \'93It means about family.\'94 \'93No,\'94 said my father. \'93It means just that, but it always surprises you. I remember the first time I found it out.\'94 \'93When was that?\'94 \'93I felt my shoes full of it. It was very warm and thick. It was just like water in your rubber boots when we go duck hunting except it was warm and thicker and smoother.\'94 \'93When was that?\'94 \'93Oh, a long time ago,\'94 said my father. \'93The Porter\'94 is a scene from the same unfinished and untitled novel as \'93A Train Trip.\'94 The Porter WHEN WE WENT TO BED MY FATHER said I might as well sleep in the lower berth because I would want to look out the window early in the morning. He said an upper berth did not make any difference to him and he would come to bed after a while. I undressed and put my clothes in the hammock and put on pajamas and got into bed. I turned off the light and pulled up the window curtain but it was cold if I sat up to look out and lying down in bed I could not see anything. My father took a suitcase out from under my berth, opened it on the bed, took out his pajamas and tossed them up to the upper berth, then he took a book out and the bottle and filled his flask. \'93Turn on the light,\'94 I said. \'93No,\'94 he said. \'93I don\'92t need it. Are you sleepy, Jim?\'94 \'93I guess so.\'94 \'93Get a good sleep,\'94 he said and closed the suitcase and put it back under the berth. \'93Did you put your shoes out?\'94 \'93No,\'94 I said. They were in the hammock and I got up to get them but he found them and put them out in the aisle. He shut the curtain. \'93Aren\'92t you going to bed, sir?\'94 the porter asked him. \'93No,\'94 my father said. \'93I\'92m going to read a while up in the washroom.\'94 \'93Yes, sir,\'94 the porter said. It was fine lying between the sheets with the thick blanket pulled up and it all dark and the country dark outside. There was a screen across the lower part of the window that was open and the air came in cold. The green curtain was buttoned tight and the car swayed but felt very solid and was going fast and once in a while you would hear the whistle. I went to sleep and when I woke up I looked out and we were going very slowly and crossing a big river. There were lights shining on the water and the iron framework of a bridge going by the window and my father was getting into the upper berth. \'93Are you awake, Jimmy?\'94 \'93Yes. Where are we?\'94 \'93We\'92re crossing into Canada now,\'94 he said. \'93But in the morning we\'92ll be out of it.\'94 I looked out of the window to see Canada but all I could see were railway yards and freight cars. We stopped and two men came by with torches and stopped and hit on the wheels with hammers. I could not see anything but the men crouching over by the wheels and opposite us freight cars and I crawled down in bed again. \'93Where are we in Canada?\'94 I asked. \'93Windsor,\'94 my father said. \'93Good night, Jim.\'94 When I woke up in the morning and looked out we were going through fine country that looked like Michigan only with higher hills and the trees were all turning. I got dressed in all but my shoes and reached under the curtain for them. They were shined and I put them on and unbuttoned the curtain and went out in the aisle. The curtains were buttoned all down the aisle and everybody seemed to be still asleep. I went down to the washroom and looked in. The nigger porter was asleep in one corner of the leather cushioned seat. His cap was down over his eyes and his feet were up on one of the chairs. His mouth was open, his head was tipped back and his hands were together in his lap. I went on to the end of the car and looked out but it was drafty and cindery and there was no place to sit down. I went back to the washroom and went in very carefully so as not to wake the porter and sat down by the window. The washroom smelt like brass spittoons in the early morning. I was hungry and I looked out of the window at the fall country and watched the porter asleep. It looked like good shooting country. There was lots of brush on the hills and patches of woods and fine looking farms and good roads. It was a different kind of looking country than Michigan. Going through it it all seemed to be connected and in Michigan one part of the country hasn\'92t any connection with another. There weren\'92t any swamps either and none of it looked burnt over. It all looked as though it belonged to somebody but it was nice looking country and the beeches and the maples were turned and there were lots of scrub oaks that had fine colored leaves too and when there was brush there was lots of sumac that was bright red. It looked like good country for rabbits and I tried to see some game but it went by too fast to concentrate looking and the only birds you could see were birds flying. I saw a hawk hunting over a field and his mate too. I saw flickers flying in the edge of the woods and I figured they were going south. I saw bluejays twice but the train was no good for seeing birds. It slid the country all sideways if you looked straight at anything and you had to just let it go by, looking ahead a little all the time. We passed a farm with a long meadow and I saw a flock of killdeer plover feeding. Three of them flew up when the train went by and circled off over the woods but the rest kept on feeding. We made a big curve so I could see the other cars curved ahead and the engine with the drive wheels going very fast away up ahead and a river valley down below us and then I looked around and the porter was awake and looking at me. \'93What do you see?\'94 he said. \'93Not much.\'94 \'93You certainly do look at it.\'94 I did not say anything but I was glad he was awake. He kept his feet up on the chair but reached up and put his cap straight. \'93That your father that stayed up here reading?\'94 \'93Yes.\'94 \'93He certainly can drink liquor.\'94 \'93He\'92s a great drinker.\'94 \'93He certainly is a great drinker. That\'92s it, a great drinker.\'94 I did not say anything. \'93I had a couple with him,\'94 the porter said. \'93And I got plenty of effect but he sat there half the night and never showed a thing.\'94 \'93He never shows anything,\'94 I said. \'93No sir. But if he keeps up that way he\'92s going to kill his whole insides.\'94 I did not say anything. \'93You hungry, boy?\'94 \'93Yes,\'94 I said. \'93I\'92m very hungry.\'94 \'93We got a diner on now. Come on back and we\'92ll get a little something.\'94 We went back through two other cars, all with the curtains closed all along the aisles, to the diner and through the tables back to the kitchen. \'93Hail fellow well met,\'94 the porter said to the chef. \'93Uncle George,\'94 the chef said. There were four other niggers sitting at a table playing cards. \'93How about some food for the young gentleman and myself?\'94 \'93No sir,\'94 said the chef. \'93Not until I can get it ready.\'94 \'93Could you drink?\'94 said George. \'93No sir,\'94 said the chef. \'93Here it is,\'94 said George. He took a pint bottle out of his side pocket. \'93Courtesy of the young gentleman\'92s father.\'94 \'93He\'92s courteous,\'94 said the chef. He wiped his lips. \'93The young gentleman\'92s father is the world\'92s champion.\'94 \'93At what?\'94 \'93At drinking.\'94 \'93He\'92s mighty courteous,\'94 said the chef. \'93How did you eat last night?\'94 \'93With that collection of yellow boys.\'94 \'93They all together still?\'94 \'93Between Chicago and Detroit. We call \'92em the White Eskimos now.\'94 \'93Well,\'94 said the chef. \'93Everything\'92s got its place.\'94 He broke two eggs on the side of a frying pan. \'93Ham and eggs for the son of the champion?\'94 \'93Thanks,\'94 I said. \'93How about some of that courtesy?\'94 \'93Yes sir.\'94 \'93May your father remain undefeated,\'94 the chef said to me. He licked his lips. \'93Does the young gentleman drink too?\'94 \'93No sir,\'94 said George. \'93He\'92s in my charge.\'94 The chef put the ham and eggs on two plates. \'93Seat yourselves, gentlemen.\'94 George and I sat down and he brought us two cups of coffee and sat down opposite us. \'93You willing to part with another example of that courtesy?\'94 \'93For the best,\'94 said George. \'93We got to get back to the car. How is the railroad business?\'94 \'93Rails are firm,\'94 said the chef. \'93How\'92s Wall Street?\'94 \'93The bears are bulling again,\'94 said George. \'93A lady bear ain\'92t safe today.\'94 \'93Bet on the Cubs,\'94 said the chef. \'93The Giants are too big for the league.\'94 George laughed and the chef laughed. \'93You\'92re a very courteous fellow,\'94 George said. \'93Fancy meeting you here.\'94 \'93Run along,\'94 said the chef. \'93Lackawannius is calling you.\'94 \'93I love that girl,\'94 said George. \'93Who touches a hair\'97\'94 \'93Run along,\'94 said the chef. \'93Or those yellow boys will get you.\'94 \'93It\'92s a pleasure, sir,\'94 said George. \'93It\'92s a very real pleasure.\'94 \'93Run along.\'94 \'93Just one more courteous action.\'94 The chef wiped his lips. \'93God speed the parting guest,\'94 he said. \'93I\'92ll be in for breakfast,\'94 George said. \'93Take your unearned increment,\'94 the chef said. George put the bottle in his pocket. \'93Good-bye to a noble soul,\'94 he said. \'93Get the hell out of here,\'94 said one of the niggers who was playing cards. \'93Good-bye, gentlemen all,\'94 George said. \'93Good night, sir,\'94 said the chef. We went out. We went back up to our car and George looked at the number board. There was a number twelve and a number five showing. George pulled a little thing down and the numbers disappeared. \'93You better sit here and be comfortable,\'94 he said. I sat down in the washroom and waited and he went down the aisle. In a little while he came back. \'93They\'92re all happy now,\'94 he said. \'93How do you like the railroad business, Jimmy?\'94 \'93How did you know my name?\'94 \'93That\'92s what your father calls you, ain\'92t it?\'94 \'93Sure.\'94 \'93Well,\'94 he said. \'93I like it fine,\'94 I said. \'93Do you and the chef always talk that way?\'94 \'93No, James,\'94 he said. \'93We only talk that way when we\'92re enthused.\'94 \'93Just when you have a drink,\'94 I said. \'93Not that alone. When we\'92re enthused from any cause. The chef and I are kindred spirits.\'94 \'93What are kindred spirits?\'94 \'93Gentlemen with the same outlook on life.\'94 I did not say anything and the bell buzzed. George went out, pulled the little thing in the box and came back in the room. \'93Did you ever see a man cut with a razor?\'94 \'93No.\'94 \'93Would you like to have it explained?\'94 \'93Yes.\'94 The bell buzzed again. \'93I\'92d better go see,\'94 George went out. He came back and sat down by me. \'93The use of the razor,\'94 he said, \'93is an art not alone known to the barbering profession.\'94 He looked at me. \'93Don\'92t you make them big eyes,\'94 he said. \'93I\'92m only lecturing.\'94 \'93I\'92m not scared.\'94 \'93I should say you\'92re not,\'94 said George. \'93You\'92re here with your greatest friend.\'94 \'93Sure,\'94 I said. I figured he was pretty drunk. \'93Your father got a lot of this?\'94 He took out the bottle. \'93I don\'92t know.\'94 \'93Your father is a type of noble Christian gentleman.\'94 He took a drink. I didn\'92t say anything. \'93Returning to the razor,\'94 George said. He reached in the inside pocket of his coat and brought out a razor. He laid it closed on the palm of his left hand. The palm was pink. \'93Consider the razor,\'94 George said. \'93It toils not, neither does it spin.\'94 He held it out on the palm of his hand. It had a black bone handle. He opened it up and held it in his right hand with the blade out straight. \'93You got a hair from your head?\'94 \'93How do you mean?\'94 \'93Pull one out. My own are very tenacious.\'94 I pulled out a hair and George reached for it. He held it in his left hand looking at it carefully then flicked the razor and cut it in two. \'93Keenness of edge,\'94 he said. Still looking at the little end of hair that was left he turned the razor in his hand and flicked the blade back the other direction. The blade cut the hair off close to his finger and thumb. \'93Simplicity of action,\'94 George said. \'93Two admirable qualities.\'94 The buzzer rang and he folded the razor and handed it to me. \'93Guard the razor,\'94 he said and went out. I looked at it and opened it and shut it. It was just an ordinary razor. George came back and sat down beside me. He took a drink. There was no more in the bottle. He looked at it and put it back in his pocket. \'93The razor, please,\'94 he said. I handed it to him. He put it on the palm of his left hand. \'93You have observed,\'94 he said, \'93keenness of edge and simplicity of action. Now a greater than these two. Security of manipulation.\'94 He picked up the razor in his right hand, gave it a little flip and the blade came open and lay back, edge out across his knuckles. He showed me his hand; the handle of the razor was in his fist, the blade was open across the knuckles, held in place by his forefinger and his thumb. The blade was solidly in place all across his fist, the edge out. \'93You observe it?\'94 George said. \'93Now for that great requisite skill in the use of.\'94 He stood up and patted out with his right hand, his fist closed, the blade open across the knuckles. The razor blade shone in the sun coming through the window. George ducked and jabbed three times with the blade. He stepped back and flicked it twice in the air. Then holding his head down and his left arm around his neck he whipped his fist and the blade back and forth, back and forth, ducking and dodging. He slashed one, two, three, four, five, six. He straightened up. His face was sweaty and he folded the razor and put it in his pocket. \'93Skill in the use of,\'94 he said. \'93And in the left hand preferably a pillow.\'94 He sat down and wiped his face. He took off his cap and wiped the leather band inside. He went over and took a drink of water. \'93The razor\'92s a delusion,\'94 he said. \'93The razor\'92s no defense. Anybody can cut you with a razor. If you\'92re close enough to cut them they\'92re bound to cut you. If you could have a pillow in your left hand you\'92d be all right. But where you going to get a pillow when you need a razor? Who you going to cut in bed? The razor\'92s a delusion, Jimmy. It\'92s a nigger weapon. A regular nigger weapon. But now you know how they use it. Bending a razor back over the hand is the only progress the nigger ever made. Only nigger ever knew how to defend himself was Jack Johnson and they put him in Leavenworth. And what would I do to Jack Johnson with a razor. It none of it makes any difference, Jimmy. All you get in this life is a point of view. Fellows like me and the chef got a point of view. Even if he\'92s got a wrong point of view he\'92s better off. A nigger gets delusions like old Jack or Marcus Garvey and they put him in the pen. Look where my delusion about the razor would take me. Nothing\'92s got any value, Jimmy. Liquor makes you feel like I\'92ll feel in an hour. You and me aren\'92t even friends.\'94 \'93Yes we are.\'94 \'93Good old Jimmy,\'94 he said. \'93Look at the deal they gave this poor old Tiger Flowers. If he was white he\'92d have made a million dollars.\'94 \'93Who was he?\'94 \'93He was a fighter. A damn good fighter.\'94 \'93What did they do to him?\'94 \'93They just took him down the road in one way or another all the time.\'94 \'93It\'92s a shame,\'94 I said. \'93Jimmy, there\'92s nothing to the whole business. You get syphed up from women or if you\'92re married your wife\'92ll run around. In the railroad business you\'92re away from home nights. The kind of a girl you want is the kind of a girl that\'92ll jig you because she can\'92t help it. You want her because she can\'92t help it and you lose her because she can\'92t help it and a man\'92s only got so many orgasms to his whole life and what difference does it make when you feel worse after liquor.\'94 \'93Don\'92t you feel all right?\'94 \'93No I don\'92t. I feel bad. If I didn\'92t feel bad I wouldn\'92t talk that way.\'94 \'93My father feels bad sometimes too in the morning.\'94 \'93He does?\'94 \'93Sure.\'94 \'93What does he do for it?\'94 \'93He exercises.\'94 \'93Well, I got twenty-four berths to make up. Maybe that\'92s the solution.\'94 It was a long day on the train after the rain started. The rain made the windows of the train wet so you could not see outside clearly and then it made everything outside look the same anyway. We went through many towns and cities but it was raining in all of them and when we crossed the Hudson River at Albany it was raining hard. I stood out in the vestibule and George opened the door so I could see out but there was only the wet iron of the bridge and the rain coming down into the river and the train with water dripping. It smelled good outside though. It was a fall rain and the air coming in through the open door smelled fresh and like wet wood and iron and it felt like fall up at the lake. There were plenty of other people in the car but none of them looked very interesting. A nice looking woman asked me to sit down next to her and I did but she turned out to have a boy of her own just my age and was going to a place in New York to be superintendent of schools. I wished I could have gone back with George to the kitchen of the dining car and heard him talk with the chef. But during the regular daytime George talked just like anyone else, except even less, and very polite, but I noticed him drinking lots of ice water. It had stopped raining outside but there were big clouds over the mountains. We were going along the river and the country was very beautiful and I had never seen anything like it before except in the illustrations of a book at Mrs. Kenwood\'92s where we used to go for Sunday dinner up at the lake. It was a big book and it was always on the parlor table and I would look at it while waiting for dinner. The engravings were like this country now after the rain with the river and the mountains going up from it and the grey stone. Sometimes there would be a train across on the other side of the river. The leaves on the trees were turned by the fall and sometimes you saw the river through the branches of the trees and it did not seem old and like the illustrations but instead it seemed like a place to live in and where you could fish and eat your lunch and watch the train go by. But mostly it was dark and unreal and sad and strange and classical like the engravings. That may have been because it was just after a rain and the sun had not come out. When the wind blows the leaves off the trees they are cheerful and good to walk through and the trees are the same, only they are without leaves. But when the leaves fall from the rain they are dead and wet and flat to the ground and the trees are changed and wet and unfriendly. It was very beautiful coming along the Hudson but it was the son of thing I did not know about and it made me wish we were back at the lake. It gave me the same feeling that the engravings in the book did and the feeling was confused with the room where I always looked at the book and it being someone else\'92s house and before dinner and wet trees after the rain and the time in the north when the fall is over and it is wet and cold and the birds are gone and the woods are no more fun to walk in and it rains and you want to stay inside with a fire. I do not suppose I thought of all those things because I have never thought much and never in words but it was the feeling of all those things that the country along the Hudson River gave me. The rain can make all places strange, even places where you live. \'93Black Ass at the Cross Roads,\'94 a completed short story, was written between the end of World War II and 1961. Black Ass at the Cross Roads WE HAD REACHED THE CROSS ROADS before noon and had shot a French civilian by mistake. He had run across the field on our right beyond the farmhouse when he saw the first jeep come up. Claude had ordered him to halt and when he had kept on running across the field Red shot him. It was the first man he had killed that day and he was very pleased. We had all thought he was a German who had stolen civilian clothes, but he turned out to be French. Anyway his papers were French and they said he was from Soissons. \'93Sans doute c\'92\'e9tait un Collabo,\'94 Claude said. \'93He ran, didn\'92t he?\'94 Red asked. \'93Claude told him to halt in good French.\'94 \'93Put him in the game book as a Collabo,\'94 I said. \'93Put his papers back on him.\'94 \'93What was he doing up here if he comes from Soissons?\'94 Red asked. \'93Soissons\'92s way the hell back.\'94 \'93He fled ahead of our troops because he was a collaborator,\'94 Claude explained. \'93He\'92s got a mean face.\'94 Red looked down at him. \'93You spoiled it a little,\'94 I said. \'93Listen, Claude. Put the papers back and leave the money.\'94 \'93Someone else will take it.\'94 \'93You won\'92t take it,\'94 I said. \'93There will be plenty of money coming through on Krauts.\'94 Then I told them where to put the two vehicles and where to set up shop and sent On\'e8sime across the field to cross the two roads and get into the shuttered estaminet and find out what had gone through on the escape-route road. Quite a little had gone through, always on the road to the right. I knew plenty more had to come through and I paced the distances back from the road to the two traps we had set up. We were using Kraut weapons so the noise would not alarm them if anyone heard the noise coming up on the cross roads. We set the traps well beyond the cross roads so that we would not louse up the cross roads and make it look like a shambles. We wanted them to hit the cross roads fast and keep coming. \'93It is a beautiful guet-apens,\'94 Claude said and Red asked me what was that. I told him it was only a trap as always. Red said he must remember the word. He now spoke his idea of French about half the time and if given an order perhaps half the time he would answer in what he thought was French. It was comic and I liked it. It was a beautiful late summer day and there were very few more to come that summer. We lay where we had set up and the two vehicles covered us from behind the manure pile. It was a big rich manure pile and very solid and we lay in the grass behind the ditch and the grass smelled as all summers smell and the two trees made a shade over each trap. Perhaps I had set up too close but you cannot ever be too close if you have fire power and the stuff is going to come through fast. One hundred yards is all right. Fifty yards is ideal. We were closer than that. Of course in that kind of thing it always seems closer. Some people would disagree with this setup. But we had to figure to get out and back and keep the road as clean looking as possible. There was nothing much you could do about vehicles, but other vehicles coming would normally assume they had been destroyed by aircraft. On this day, though, there was no aircraft. But nobody coming would know there had not been aircraft through here. Anybody making their run on an escape route sees things differently too. \'93Mon Capitaine,\'94 Red said to me. \'93If the point comes up they will not shoot the shit out of us when they hear these Kraut weapons?\'94 \'93We have observation on the road where the point will come from the two vehicles. They\'92ll flag them off. Don\'92t sweat.\'94 \'93I am not sweating,\'94 Red said. \'93I have shot a proved collaborator. The only thing we have killed today and we will kill many Krauts in this setup. Pas vrai, Onie?\'94 On\'e8sime said, \'93Merde\'94 and just then we heard a car coming very fast. I saw it come down the beech-tree bordered road. It was an overloaded grey-green camouflaged Volkswagen and it was filled with steel-helmeted people looking as though they were racing to catch a train. There were two aiming stones by the side of the road that I had taken from a wall by the farm, and as the Volkswagen crossed the notch of the cross roads and came toward us on the good straight escape road that crossed in front of us and led up a hill, I said to Red, \'93Kill the driver at the first stone.\'94 To On\'e8sime I said, \'93Traverse at body height.\'94 The Volkswagen driver had no control of his vehicle after Red shot. I could not see the expression on his face because of the helmet. His hands relaxed. They did not crisp tight nor hold on the wheel. The machine gun started firing before the driver\'92s hands relaxed and the car went into the ditch spilling the occupants in slow motion. Some were on the road and the second outfit gave them a small carefully hoarded burst. One man rolled over and another started to crawl and while I watched Claude shot them both. \'93I think I got that driver in the head,\'94 Red said. \'93Don\'92t be too fancy.\'94 \'93She throws a little high at this range,\'94 Red said. \'93I shot for the lowest part of him I could see.\'94 \'93Bertrand,\'94 I called over to the second outfit. \'93You and your people get them off the road, please. Bring me all the Feldbuchen and you hold the money for splitting. Get them off fast. Go on and help, Red. Get them into the ditch.\'94 I watched the road to the west beyond the estaminet while the cleaning up was going on. I never watched the cleaning up unless I had to take part in it myself. Watching the cleaning up is bad for you. It is no worse for me than for anyone else. But I was in command. \'93How many did you get, Onie?\'94 \'93All eight, I think. Hit, I mean.\'94 \'93At this range\'97\'94 \'93It\'92s not very sporting. But after all it\'92s their machine gun.\'94 \'93We have to get set now fast again.\'94 \'93I don\'92t think the vehicle is shot up badly.\'94 \'93We\'92ll check her afterwards.\'94 \'93Listen,\'94 Red said. I listened, then blew the whistle twice and everybody faded back, Red hauling the last Kraut by one leg with his head shuddering and the trap was set again. But nothing came and I was worried. We were set up for a simple job of assassination astride an escape route. We were not astride, technically, because we did not have enough people to set up on both sides of the road and we were not technically prepared to cope with armored vehicles. But each trap had two German Panzerfausten. They were much more powerful and simpler than the general-issue American bazooka, having a bigger warhead and you could throw away the launching tube; but lately, many that we had found in the German retreat had been booby-trapped and others had been sabotaged. We used only those as fresh as anything in that market could be fresh and we always asked a German prisoner to fire off samples taken at random from the lot. German prisoners who had been taken by irregulars were often as cooperative as head waiters or minor diplomats. In general we regarded the Germans as perverted Boy Scouts. This is another way of saying they were splendid soldiers. We were not splendid soldiers. We were specialists in a dirty trade. In French we said, \'93un m\'e9tier tr\'e8s sale.\'94 We knew, from repeated questionings, that all Germans coming through on this escape route were making for Aachen and I knew that all we killed now we would not have to fight in Aachen nor behind the West Wall. This was simple. I was pleased when anything was that simple. The Germans we saw coming now were on bicycles. There were four of them and they were in a hurry too but they were very tired. They were not cyclist troops. They were just Germans on stolen bicycles. The leading rider saw the fresh blood on the road and then he turned his head and saw the vehicle and he put his weight hard down on his right pedal with his right boot and we opened on him and on the others. A man shot off a bicycle is always a sad thing to see, although not as sad as a horse shot with a man riding him nor a milk cow gut-shot when she walks into a fire fight. But there is something about a man shot off a bicycle at close range that is too intimate. These were four men and four bicycles. It was very intimate and you could hear the thin tragic noise the bicycles made when they went over onto the road and the heavy sound of men falling and the clatter of equipment. \'93Get them off the road quick,\'94 I said. \'93And hide the four v\'e9los.\'94 As I turned to watch the road one of the doors of the estaminet opened and two civilians wearing caps and working clothes came out each carrying two bottles. They sauntered across the cross roads and turned to come up in the field behind the ambush. They wore sweaters and old coats, corduroy trousers and country boots. \'93Keep them covered, Red,\'94 I said. They advanced steadily and then raised the bottles high above their heads, one bottle in each hand as they came in. \'93For Christ sake, get down,\'94 I called, and they got down and came crawling through the grass with the bottles tucked under their arms. \'93Nous sommes des copains,\'94 one called in a deep voice, rich with alcohol. \'93Advance, rum-dumb copains, and be recognized,\'94 Claude answered. \'93We are advancing.\'94 \'93What do you want out here in the rain?\'94 On\'e8sime called. \'93We bring the little presents.\'94 \'93Why didn\'92t you give the little presents when I was over there?\'94 Claude asked. \'93Ah, things have changed, camarade.\'94 \'93For the better?\'94 \'93Rudement,\'94 the first rummy camarade said. The other, lying flat and handing us one of the bottles, asked in a hurt tone, \'93On dit pas bonjour aux nouveaux camarades?\'94 \'93Bonjour,\'94 I said. \'93Tu veux battre?\'94 \'93If it\'92s necessary. But we came to ask if we might have the v\'e9los.\'94 \'93After the fight,\'94 I said. \'93You\'92ve made your military service?\'94 \'93Naturally.\'94 \'93Okay. You take a German rifle each and two packs of ammo and go up the road two hundred yards on our right and kill any Germans that get by us.\'94 \'93Can\'92t we stay with you?\'94 \'93We\'92re specialists,\'94 Claude said. \'93Do what the captain says.\'94 \'93Get up there and pick out a good place and don\'92t shoot back this way.\'94 \'93Put on these arm bands,\'94 Claude said. He had a pocket full of arm bands. \'93You\'92re Franctireurs.\'94 He did not add the rest of it. \'93Afterwards we can have the v\'e9los?\'94 \'93One apiece if you don\'92t have to fight. Two apiece if you fight.\'94 \'93What about the money?\'94 Claude asked. \'93They\'92re using our guns.\'94 \'93Let them keep the money.\'94 \'93They don\'92t deserve it.\'94 \'93Bring any money back and you\'92ll get your share. Allez vite. D\'e9bine-toi.\'94 \'93Ceux, sont des poivrots pourris,\'94 Claude said. \'93They had rummies in Napoleon\'92s time too.\'94 \'93It\'92s probable.\'94 \'93It\'92s certain,\'94 I said. \'93You can take it easy on that.\'94 We lay in the grass and it smelled of true summer and the flies, the ordinary flies and the big blue flies started to come to the dead that were in the ditch and there were butterflies around the edges of the blood on the black-surfaced road. There were yellow butterflies and white butterflies around the blood and the streaks where the bodies had been hauled. \'93I didn\'92t know butterflies ate blood,\'94 Red said. \'93I didn\'92t either.\'94 \'93Of course when we hunt it\'92s too cold for butterflies.\'94 \'93When we hunt in Wyoming the picket pin gophers and the prairie dogs are holed up already. That\'92s the fifteenth of September.\'94 \'93I\'92m going to watch and see if they really eat it,\'94 Red said. \'93Want to take my glasses?\'94 He watched and after a while he said, \'93I\'92ll be damned if I can tell. But it sure interests them.\'94 Then he turned to On\'e8sime and said, \'93Piss pauvre Krauts, Onie. Pas de pistol, pas de binoculaire. Fuck-all rien.\'94 \'93Assez de sous,\'94 On\'e8sime said. \'93We\'92re doing all right on the money.\'94 \'93No fucking place to spend it.\'94 \'93Some day.\'94 \'93Je veux spend maintenant,\'94 Red said. Claude opened one of the two bottles with the cork screw on his Boy Scout German knife. He smelled it and handed it to me. \'93C\'92est du gn\'f4le.\'94 The other outfit had been working on their share. They were our best friends but as soon as we were split they seemed like the others and the vehicles seemed like the rear echelon. You split too easy, I thought. You want to watch that. That\'92s one more thing you can watch. I took a drink from the bottle. It was very strong raw spirits and all it had was fire. I handed it back to Claude who gave it to Red. Tears came into his eyes when he swallowed it. \'93What do they make it out of up here, Onie?\'94 \'93Potatoes, I think, and parings from horses\'92 hooves they get at the blacksmith shop.\'94 I translated to Red. \'93I taste everything but the potatoes,\'94 he said. \'93They age it in rusty nail kegs with a few old nails to give it zest.\'94 \'93I better take another to take the taste out of my mouth,\'94 Red said. \'93Mon Capitaine, should we die together?\'94 \'93Bonjour, toute le monde,\'94 I said. This was an old joke we had about an Algerian who was about to be guillotined on the pavement outside the Sant\'e9 who replied with that phrase when asked if he had any last words to say. \'93To the butterflies,\'94 On\'e8sime drank. \'93To the nail kegs,\'94 Claude raised the bottle. \'93Listen,\'94 Red said and handed the bottle to me. We all heard the noise of a tracked vehicle. \'93The fucking jackpot,\'94 Red said. \'93Along ongfong de la patree, le fucking jackpot ou le more.\'94 He sang softly, the nail keg juice no good to him now. I took another good drink of the juice as we lay and checked everything and looked up the road to our left. Then it came in sight. It was a Kraut halftrack and it was crowded to standing room only. When you set a trap on an escape route you have four or, if you can afford them, five Teller mines, armed, on the far side of the road. They lie like round checker counters wider than the biggest soup plates and toad squatted in their thick deadliness. They are in a semi-circle, covered with cut grass and connected by a heavy tarred line which may be procured at any ship chandler\'92s. One end of this line is made fast to a kilometer marking, called a borne, or to a tenth of a kilometer stone, or any other completely solid object, and the line runs loosely across the road and is coiled in the first or second section of the trap. The approaching overloaded vehicle was of the type where the driver looks out through slits and its heavy machine guns now showed high in anti-aircraft position. We were all watching it closely as it came nearer, so very overcrowded. It was full of combat S.S. and we could see the collars now and faces were clear then clearer. \'93Pull the cord,\'94 I called to the second outfit and as the cord took up its slack and commenced to tighten the mines moved out of their semi-circle and across the road looking, I thought, like nothing but green grass-covered Teller mines. Now the driver would see them and stop or he would go on and hit them. You should not attack an armored vehicle while it was moving, but if he braked I could hit him with the big-headed German bazooka. The half-track came on very fast and now we could see the faces quite clearly. They were all looking down the road where the point would come from. Claude and Onie were white and Red had a twitch in the muscle of his cheek. I felt hollow as always. Then someone in the half-track saw the blood and the Volkswagen in the ditch and the bodies. They were shouting in German and the driver and the officer with him must have seen the mines across the road and they came to a tearing swerving halt and had started to back when the bazooka hit. It hit while both outfits were firing from the two traps. The people in the half-track had mines themselves and were hurrying to set up their own road block to cover what had gone through because when the Kraut bazooka hit and the vehicle went up we all dropped our heads and everything rained down as from a fountain. It rained metal and other things. I checked on Claude and Onie and Red and they were all firing. I was firing too with a Smeizer on the slits and my back was wet and I had stuff all over my neck, but I had seen what fountained up. I could not understand why the vehicle had not been blown wide open or overturned. But it just blew straight up. The fifties from the vehicle were firing and there was so much noise you could not hear. No one showed from the half-track and I thought it was over and was going to wave the fifties off, when someone inside threw a stick grenade that exploded just beyond the edge of the road. \'93They\'92re killing their dead,\'94 Claude said. \'93Can I go up and put a couple into her?\'94 \'93I can hit her again.\'94 \'93No. Once was enough. My whole back\'92s tattooed.\'94 \'93Okay. Go on.\'94 He crawled forward, snaking in the grass under the fire of the fifties and pulled the pin from a grenade and let the lever snap loose and held the grenade smoking grey and then lobbed it underhand up over the side of the half-track. It exploded with a jumping roar and you could hear the fragments whang against the armor. \'93Come on out,\'94 Claude said in German. A German machine-gun pistol started shooting from the right-hand slit. Red hit the slit twice. The pistol fired again. It was obvious it was not being aimed. \'93Come on out,\'94 Claude called. The pistol shot again, making a noise like children rattling a stick along a picket fence. I shot back making the same silly noise. \'93Come on back, Claude,\'94 I said. \'93You fire on one slit. Red. Onie, you fire on the other.\'94 When Claude came back fast I said, \'93Fuck that Kraut. We\'92ll use up another one. We can get more. The point will be up anyway.\'94 \'93This is their rear guard,\'94 Onie said. \'93This vehicle.\'94 \'93Go ahead and shoot it,\'94 I said to Claude. He shot it and there was no front compartment and then they went in after what would be left of the money and the paybooks. I had a drink and waved to the vehicles. The men on the fifties were shaking their hands over their heads like fighters. Then I sat with my back against the tree to think and to look down the road. They brought what paybooks there were and I put them in a canvas bag with the others. Not one of them was dry. There was a great deal of money, also wet, and Onie and Claude and the other outfit cut off a lot of S.S. patches and they had what pistols were serviceable and some that weren\'92t and put it all in the canvas sack with the red stripes around it. I never touched the money. That was their business and I thought it was bad luck to touch it anyway. But there was plenty of prize money. Bertrand gave me an Iron Cross, first class, and I put it in the pocket of my shirt. We kept some for a while and then we gave them all away. I never liked to keep anything. It\'92s bad luck in the end. I had stuff for a while that I wished I could have sent back afterwards or to their families. The outfit looked as though they had been showered by chunks and particles from an explosion in an abattoir and the other people did not look too clean when they came out from the body of the halftrack. I did not know how badly I must have looked myself until I noticed how many flies there were around my back and neck and shoulders. The half-track lay across the road and any vehicle passing would have to slow down. Everyone was rich now and we had lost no one and the place was ruined. We would have to fight on another day and I was sure this was the rear guard and all we would get now would be strays and unfortunates. \'93Disarm the mines and pick up everything and we will go back to the farmhouse and clean up. We can interdict the road from there like in the book.\'94 They came in heavily loaded and everyone was very cheerful. We left the vehicles where they were and washed up at the pump in the farmyard and Red put iodine on the metal cuts and scratches and sifted Sulfa on Onie and Claude and me and then Claude took care of Red. \'93Haven\'92t they got anything to drink in that farmhouse?\'94 I asked Ren\'e9. \'93I don\'92t know. We\'92ve been too busy.\'94 \'93Get in and see.\'94 He found some bottles of red wine that was drinkable and I sat around and checked the weapons and made jokes. We had very severe discipline but no formality except when we were back at Division or when we wanted to show off. \'93Encore un coup manqu\'e9,\'94 I said. That was a very old joke and it was a phrase that a crook we had with us for a while always uttered when I would let something worthless go by to wait for something good. \'93It\'92s terrible,\'94 said Claude. \'93It\'92s intolerable,\'94 said Michel. \'93Me, I can go no further,\'94 On\'e8sime said. \'93Moi, je suis la France,\'94 Red said. \'93You fight?\'94 Claude asked him. \'93Pas moi.\'94 Red answered. \'93I command.\'94 \'93You fight?\'94 Claude asked me. \'93Jamais.\'94 \'93Why is your shirt covered with blood?\'94 \'93I was attending the birth of a calf.\'94 \'93Are you a midwife or a veterinary?\'94 \'91I give only the name, rank and serial number.\'94 We drank some more wine and watched the road and waited for the point to come up. \'93O\'f9 est la fucking point?\'94 Red asked. \'93I am not in their confidence.\'94 \'93I\'92m glad it didn\'92t come up while we had the little accrochage,\'94 Onie said. \'93Tell me, mon Capitaine, how did you feel when you let the thing go?\'94 \'93Very hollow.\'94 \'93What did you think about?\'94 \'93I hoped to Christ it would not trickle out.\'94 \'93We were certainly lucky they were loaded with stuff.\'94 \'93Or that they didn\'92t back up and deploy.\'94 \'93Don\'92t ruin my afternoon,\'94 Marcel said. \'93Two Krauts on bicycles,\'94 Red said. \'93Approaching from the west.\'94 \'93Plucky chaps,\'94 I said. \'93Encore un coup manqu\'e9,\'94 said Onie. \'93Anybody want them?\'94 Nobody wanted them. They were pedaling steadily, slumped forward and their boots were too big for the pedals. \'93I\'92ll try one with the M-1,\'94 I said. Auguste handed it to me and I waited until the first German on the bicycle was past the half-track and clear of the trees and then had the sight on him, swung with him and missed. \'93Pas bon,\'94 said Red and I tried it again swinging further ahead. The German fell in the same disconcerting heartbreaking way and lay in the road with the v\'e9lo upside down and a wheel still spinning. The other cyclist sprinted on and soon the copains were firing. We heard the hard ta-bung of their shots which had no effect on the cyclist who kept on pedaling until he was out of sight. \'93Copains no bloody bon,\'94 Red said. Then we saw the copains falling back to retire onto the main body. The French of the outfit were ashamed and sore. \'93On peut les fusiller?\'94 Claude asked. \'93No. We don\'92t shoot rummies.\'94 \'93Encore un coup manqu\'e9,\'94 said Onie and everybody felt better but not too good. The first copain who had a bottle in his shirt which showed when he stopped and presented arms said, \'93Mon Capitaine, on a fait un v\'e9ritable massacre.\'94 \'93Shut up,\'94 said Onie. \'93And hand me your pieces.\'94 \'93But we were the right flank,\'94 the copain said in his rich voice. \'93You\'92re shit,\'94 Claude said. \'93You venerable alcoholic. Shut up and fuck off.\'94 \'93Mais on a battu.\'94 \'93Fought, shit,\'94 Marcel said. \'93Foute moi le camp.\'94 \'93On peut fusiller les copains?\'94 Red asked. He had remembered it like a parrot. \'93You shut up too,\'94 I said. \'93Claude, I promised them two v\'e9los.\'94 \'93It\'92s true,\'94 Claude said. \'93You and I will go down and give them the worst two and remove the Kraut and the v\'e9lo. You others keep the road cut.\'94 \'93It was not like this in the old days,\'94 one of the copains said. \'93Nothing\'92s ever going to be like it was in the old days. You were probably drunk in the old days anyway.\'94 We went first to the German in the road. He was not dead but was shot through both lungs. We took him as gently as we could and laid him down as comfortable as we could and I took off his tunic and shirt and we sifted the wounds with Sulfa and Claude put a field dressing on him. He had a nice face and he did not look more than seventeen. He tried to talk but he couldn\'92t. He was trying to take it the way he\'92d always heard you should. Claude got a couple of tunics from the dead and made a pillow for him. Then he stroked his head and held his hand and felt his pulse. The boy was watching him all the time but he could not talk. The boy never looked away from him and Claude bent over and kissed him on the forehead. \'93Carry that bicycle off the road,\'94 I said to the copains. \'93Cette putain guerre,\'94 Claude said. \'93This dirty whore of a war.\'94 The boy did not know that it was me who had done it to him and so he had no special fear of me and I felt his pulse too and I knew why Claude had done what he had done. I should have kissed him myself if I was any good. It was just one of those things that you omit to do and that stay with you. \'93I\'92d like to stay with him for a little while,\'94 Claude said. \'93Thank you very much,\'94 I said. I went over to where we had the four bicycles behind the trees and the copains were standing there like crows. \'93Take this one and that one and foute moi le camp.\'94 I took off their brassards and put them in my pocket. \'93But we fought. That\'92s worth two.\'94 \'93Fuck off,\'94 I said. \'93Did you hear me? Fuck off.\'94 They went away disappointed. A boy about fourteen came out from the estaminet and asked for the new bicycle. \'93They took mine early this morning.\'94 \'93All right. Take it.\'94 \'93What about the other two?\'94 \'93Run along and keep off the road until the column gets up here.\'94 \'93But you are the column.\'94 \'93No,\'94 I said. \'93Unfortunately we are not the column.\'94 The boy mounted the bicycle which was undamaged and rode down to the estaminet. I walked back under the hot summer sky to the farmyard to wait for the point. I didn\'92t know how I could feel any worse. But you can all right. I can promise you that. \'93Will we go into the big town tonight?\'94 Red asked me. \'93Sure. They\'92re taking it now, coming in from the west. Can\'92t you hear it?\'94 \'93Sure. You could hear it since noon. Is it a good town?\'94 \'93You\'92ll see it as soon as the column gets up and we fit in and go down that road past the estaminet.\'94 I showed him on the map. \'93You can see it in about a mile. See the curve before you drop down?\'94 \'93Are we going to fight any more?\'94 \'93Not today.\'94 \'93You got another shirt?\'94 \'93It\'92s worse than this.\'94 \'93It can\'92t be worse than this one. I\'92ll wash this one out. If you have to put it on wet it won\'92t hurt on a hot day like this. You feeling bad?\'94 \'93Yeah. Very.\'94 \'93What\'92s holding Claude up?\'94 \'93He\'92s staying with the kid I shot until he dies.\'94 \'93Was it a kid?\'94 \'93Yeah.\'94 \'93Oh shit,\'94 Red said. After a while Claude came back wheeling the two v\'e9los. He handed me the boy\'92s Feldbuch. \'93Let me wash your shirt good too, Claude. I got Onie\'92s and mine washed and they\'92re nearly dry.\'94 \'93Thanks very much. Red,\'94 Claude said. \'93Is there any of the wine left?\'94 \'93We found some more and some sausage.\'94 \'93Good,\'94 Claude said. He had the black ass bad too. \'93We\'92re going in the big town after the column overruns us. You can see it only a little more than a mile from here,\'94 Red told him. \'93I\'92ve seen it before,\'94 Claude said. \'93It\'92s a good town.\'94 \'93We aren\'92t going to fight any more today.\'94 \'93We\'92ll fight tomorrow.\'94 \'93Maybe we won\'92t have to.\'94 \'93Maybe.\'94 \'93Cheer up.\'94 \'93Shut up. I\'92m cheered up.\'94 \'93Good,\'94 Red said. \'93Take this bottle and the sausage and I\'92ll wash the shirt in no time.\'94 \'93Thank you very much,\'94 Claude said. We were splitting it even between us and neither of us liked our share. \'93Landscape with Figures,\'94 a story of the Spanish Civil War, was written around 1938, and was one of the short stories Hemingway suggested be included in a new collection he proposed in a letter to editor Maxwell Perkins on February 7, 1939. Landscape with Figures IT WAS VERY STRANGE IN THAT HOUSE . The elevator, of course, no longer ran. The steel column it slid up and down on was bent and there were several marble stairs in the six flights which were broken so that you had to walk carefully on the edges as you climbed so that you would not fall through. There were doors which opened onto rooms where there were no longer any rooms and you could swing a perfectly sound-looking door open and step across the door sill into space: that floor and the next three floors below having been blasted out of the front of the apartment house by direct hits by high explosive shells. Yet the two top floors had four rooms on the front of the house which were intact and there was still running water in the back rooms on all of the floors. We called this house the Old Homestead. The front line had, at the very worst moment, been directly below this apartment house along the upper edge of the little plateau that the boulevard circled and the trench and the weather-rotted sandbags were still there. They were so close you could throw a broken tile or a piece of mortar from the smashed apartment house down into them as you stood on one of the balconies. But now the line had been pushed down from the lip of the plateau, across the river and up into the pine-studded slope of the hill that rose behind the old royal hunting lodge that was called the Caso del Campo. It was there that the fighting was going on, now, and we used the Old Homestead both as an observation post and as an advantage point to film from. In those days it was very dangerous and always cold and we were always hungry and we joked a great deal. Each time a shell bursts in a building it makes a great cloud of brick and plaster dust and when this settles it coats the surface of a mirror so that it is as powdered as the windows which have been calcimined over in a new building. There was a tall unbroken mirror in one of the rooms of that house giving off the stairs as you climbed and on its dusty surface I printed, with my finger, in large letters DEATH TO JOHNNY and we then sent Johnny, the camera-man, into that room on some pretext. When he opened the door, during a shelling, and saw that ghostly announcement staring at him from the glass he went into a white, deadly, Dutch rage and it was quite a time before we were friends again. Then the next day when we were loading the equipment into a car in front of the hotel I got into the car and cranked up the glass of the side window as it was bitterly cold. As the glass rose I saw, printed on it with large red letters in what must have been a borrowed lipstick, ED IS A LICE. We used the car for several days with that mysterious, to the Spaniards, slogan. They must have taken it for the initials or slogan of some Holland-American revolutionary organization perhaps resembling the F.A.I. or the C.N.T. Then there was the day when the great British authority on let us forget just what came to town. He had a huge, German-type steel helmet which he wore on all expeditions in the direction of the front. This was an item of clothing which none of the rest of us affected. It was the general theory that since there were not many steel helmets these should be reserved for the shock troops and his wearing of this helmet formed in us an instant prejudice against the Great Authority. We had met in the room of an American woman journalist who had a splendid electric heater. The Authority took an instant fancy to this very pleasant room and named it the Club. His proposal was that everyone should bring their own liquor there and be able to enjoy it in the warmth and pleasant atmosphere. As the American girl was exceedingly hardworking and had been trying, perhaps not too successfully, to keep her room from becoming in any sense the Club, this definite baptism and classification came as rather a blow to her. We were working there in the Old Homestead the next day, shielding the camera lens as carefully as possible against the glare of the afternoon sun with a screen of broken matting, when the Authority arrived accompanied by the American girl. He had heard us discussing the location at the Club and had come to pay a visit. I was using a pair of field glasses, eight power, small Zeisses that you could cover with your two hands so that they gave no reflection, and was observing from the shadow in the angle of the broken balcony. The attack was about to start and we were waiting for the planes to come over and commence the bombardment which substituted for adequate artillery preparation due to the Government\'92s then shortage of heavy artillery. We had worked in the house, concealing ourselves as carefully as rats do because the success of our work and the possibility of continued observation depended altogether on not drawing any fire on the seemingly deserted building. Now into the room came the Great Authority, and drawing up one of the empty chairs, seated himself in the exact center of the open balcony, steel helmet, over-sized binoculars and all. The camera was at an angle on one side of the balcony window as carefully camouflaged as a machine gun. I was in the angle of shadow on the other, invisible to anyone on the hillside, and always careful never to move across the sunny open space. The Authority was seated in plain sight in the middle of the sunny patch looking, in his steel hat, like the head of all the general staffs in the world, his glasses blinking in the sun like a helio. \'93Look,\'94 I said to him. \'93We have to work here. From where you\'92re sitting your glasses make a blink that everybody on that hill can see.\'94 \'93Ay dount think theys aneh dainjah een a house,\'94 the Authority said with calm and condescending dignity. \'93If you ever hunted mountain sheep,\'94 I said, \'93you know they can see you as far as you can see them. Do you see how clearly you see the men with your glasses? They have glasses too.\'94 \'93Ay dount think theys aneh dainjah een a house,\'94 the Authority repeated. \'93Wheah are the tanks?\'94 \'93There,\'94 I said. \'93Under the trees.\'94 The two cameramen were making grimaces and shaking their clenched fists over their heads in fury. \'93I go to take the big camera into the back,\'94 Johnny said. \'93Keep well back, daughter,\'94 I said to the American girl. Then, to the Authority, \'93They take you for somebody\'92s staff, you know. They see that tin hat and those glasses and they think we\'92re running the battle. You\'92re asking for it, you know.\'94 He repeated his refrain. It was at that minute that the first one hit us. It came with a noise like a bursted steam pipe combined with a ripping of canvas and with the burst and the roar and rattle of broken plaster and the dust smoke over us I had the girl out of the room and into the back of the apartment. As I dove through the door something with a steel hat on passed me going for the stairs. You may think a rabbit moves fast when it first jumps and starts zig-zagging away, but the Authority moved through that smoke-filled hall, down those tricky stairs, out the door, and down the street faster than any rabbit. One of the cameramen said he had no speed on the lens of his Leica which would stop him in motion. This of course is inaccurate but it gives the effect. Anyway they shelled the house fast for about a minute. They came on such a flat trajectory you hardly had time to hold a breath between the rush and the jolt and roar of the burst. Then after the last one we waited a couple of minutes to see if it had stopped, had a drink of water from the tap in the kitchen sink, and found a new room to set up the camera. The attack was just starting. The American girl was very bitter against the Authority. \'93 He brought me here,\'94 she said. \'93He said it was quite safe. And he went away and did not even say good-bye.\'94 \'93He cahnt be a gentleman,\'94 I said. \'93Look, daughter. Watch. Now. There it goes.\'94 Below us some men stood up, half crouching, and ran forward toward a stone house in a patch of trees. The house was disappearing in the sudden fountainings of dust clouds from the shells that were registering on it. The wind blew the dust clear after each shell so that the house kept showing plainly through the dust as a ship comes out of a fog and ahead of the men a tank lurched fast like a roundtopped, gun-snouted beetle and went out of sight in the trees. As you watched, the men who were running forward threw themselves flat. Then another tank went forward on the left and into the trees and you could see the flash of its firing and in the smoke that blew from the house one of the men who was on the gorund stood up and ran wildly back toward the trench that they had left when they attacked. Another got up and ran back, holding his rifle in one hand, his other hand on his head. Then they were running back from all along the line. Some fell as they ran. Others lay on the ground without ever having got up. They were scattered all over the hillside. \'93What\'92s happened?\'94 the girl asked. \'93The attack has failed,\'94 I said. \'93Why?\'94 \'93It wasn\'92t pushed home.\'94 \'93Why? Wasn\'92t it just as dangerous for them to run back as to go forward?\'94 \'93Not quite.\'94 The girl held the field glasses to her eyes. Then she put them down. \'93I can\'92t see any more,\'94 she said. The tears were running down her cheeks and her face was working. I had never seen her cry before and we had seen many things you could cry about if you were going to cry. In a war everybody of all ranks including generals cries at some time or another. This is true, no matter what people tell you, but it is to be avoided, and is avoided, and I had not seen this girl doing it before. \'93And that\'92s an attack?\'94 \'93That\'92s an attack,\'94 I said. \'93Now you\'92ve seen one.\'94 \'93And what will happen?\'94 \'93They may send them again if there\'92s enough people left to lead them. I doubt if they will. You can count the losses out there if you like.\'94 \'93Are those men all dead?\'94 \'93No. Some are too badly wounded to move. They will bring them in in the dark.\'94 \'93What will the tanks do now?\'94 \'93They\'92ll go home if they\'92re lucky.\'94 But one of them was already unlucky. In the pine woods a black dirty column of smoke began to rise and was then blown sideways by the wind. Soon it was a rolling black cloud and in the greasy black smoke you could see the red flames. There was an explosion and a billowing of white smoke and then the black smoke rolled higher; but from a wider base. \'93That\'92s a tank,\'94 I said. \'93Burning.\'94 We stood and watched. Through the glasses you could see two men get out of an angle of the trench and start up a slant of the hill carrying a stretcher. They seemed to move slowly and ploddingly. As you watched the man in front sank onto his knees and then sat down. The man behind had dropped to the ground. He crawled forward. Then with his arm under the first man\'92s shoulder he started to crawl, dragging him toward the trench. Then he stopped moving and you saw that he was lying flat on his face. They both lay there not moving now. They had stopped shelling the house and it was quiet now. The big farmhouse and walled court showed clear and yellow against the green hillside that was scarred white with the dirt where the strong points had been fortified and the communication trenches dug. There was smoke from small fires rising now over the hillside where men were cooking. And up the slope toward the big farmhouse lay the casualties of the attack like many scattered bundles on the green slope. The tank was burning black and greasy in the trees. \'93It\'92s horrible,\'94 the girl said. \'93It\'92s the first time I\'92ve ever seen it. It\'92s really horrible.\'94 \'93It always has been.\'94 \'93Don\'92t you hate it?\'94 \'93I hate it and I always have hated it. But when you have to do it you ought to know how. That was a frontal attack. They are just murder.\'94 \'93Are there other ways to attack?\'94 \'93Oh sure. Lots of them. But you have to have knowledge and discipline and trained squad and section leaders. And most of all you ought to have surprise.\'94 \'93It makes now too dark to work,\'94 Johnny said putting the cap over his telephoto lens. \'93Hello you old lice. Now we go home to the hotel. Today we work pretty good.\'94 \'93Yes,\'94 said the other one. \'93Today we have got something very good. It is too dom bad the attack is no good. Is better not to think about it. Sometime we film a successful attack. Only always with a successful attack it rains or snows.\'94 \'93I don\'92t want to see any more ever,\'94 the girl said. \'93I\'92ve seen it now. Nothing would ever make me see it for curiosity or to make money writing about it. Those are men as we are. Look at them there on that hillside.\'94 \'93You are not men,\'94 said Johnny. \'93You are a womans. Don\'92t make a confusion.\'94 \'93Comes now the steel hat man,\'94 said the other looking out of the window. \'93Comes now with much dignity. I wish I had bomb to throw to make suddenly a surprise.\'94 We were packing up the cameras and equipment when the steel-hatted Authority came in. \'93Hullo,\'94 he said. \'93Did you make some good pictures? I have a car in one of the back streets to take you home, Elizabeth.\'94 \'93I\'92m going home with Edwin Henry,\'94 the girl said. \'93Did the wind die down?\'94 I asked him conversationally. He let that go by and said to the girl, \'93You won\'92t come?\'94 \'93No,\'94 she said. \'93We are all going home together.\'94 \'93I\'92ll see you at the Club tonight,\'94 he said to me very pleasantly. \'93You don\'92t belong to the Club any more,\'94 I told him, speaking as nearly English as I could. We all started down the stairs together, being very careful about the holes in the marble, and walking over and around the new damage. It seemed a very long stairway. I picked up a brass nosecap flattened and plaster marked at the end and handed it to the girl called Elizabeth. \'93I don\'92t want it,\'94 she said and at the doorway we all stopped and let the steel-hatted man go on ahead alone. He walked with great dignity across the part of the street where you were sometimes fired on and continued on, with dignity, in the shelter of the wall opposite. Then, one at a time, we sprinted across to the lee of the wall. It is the third or fourth man to cross an open space who draws the fire, you learn after you have been around a while, and we were always pleased to be across that particular place. So we walked up the street now, protected by the wall, four abreast, carrying the cameras and stepping over the new iron fragments, the freshly broken bricks, and the blocks of stone, and watching the dignity of the walk of the steel-hatted man ahead who no longer belonged to the Club. \'93I hate to write a dispatch,\'94 I said. \'93It\'92s not going to be an easy one to write. This offensive is gone.\'94 \'93What\'92s the matter with you, boy?\'94 asked Johnny. \'93You must write what can be said,\'94 the other one said gently. \'93Certainly something can be said about a day so full of events.\'94 \'93When will they get the wounded back?\'94 the girl asked. She wore no hat and walked with a long loose stride and her hair, which was a dusty yellow in the fading light, hung over the collar of her short, fur-collared jacket. It swung as she turned her head. Her face was white and she looked ill. \'93I told you as soon as it gets dark.\'94 \'93God make it get dark quick,\'94 she said. \'93So that\'92s war. That\'92s what I\'92ve come here to see and write about. Were those two men killed who went out with the stretcher?\'94 \'93Yes,\'94 I said. \'93Positively.\'94 \'93They moved so slowly,\'94 the girl said pitifully. \'93Sometime\'92s it\'92s very hard to make the legs move,\'94 I said. \'93It\'92s like walking in deep sand or in a dream.\'94 Ahead of us the man in the steel hat was still walking up the street. There was a line of shattered houses on his left and the brick wall of the barracks on his right. His car was parked at the end of the street where ours was also standing in the lee of a house. \'93Let\'92s take him back to the Club,\'94 the girl said. \'93I don\'92t want anyone to be hurt tonight. Not their feelings nor anything. Heh!\'94 she called. \'93Wait for us. We\'92re coming.\'94 He stopped and looked back, the great heavy helmet looking ridiculous as he turned his head, like the huge horns on some harmless beast. He waited and we came up. \'93Can I help you with any of that?\'94 he asked. \'93No. The car\'92s just there ahead.\'94 \'93We\'92re all going to the Club,\'94 the girl said. She smiled at him. \'93Would you come and bring a bottle of something?\'94 \'93That would be so nice,\'94 he said. \'93What should I bring?\'94 \'93Anything,\'94 the girl said. \'93Bring anything you like. I have to do some work first. Make it seven thirtyish.\'94 \'93Will you ride home with me?\'94 he asked her. \'93I\'92m afraid the other car is crowded with all that bit.\'94 \'93Yes,\'94 she said. \'93I\'92d like to. Thank you.\'94 They got in one car and we loaded all the stuff into the other. \'93What\'92s the matter, boy?\'94 Johnny said. \'93Your girl go home with somebody else?\'94 \'93The attack upset her. She feels very badly.\'94 \'93A woman who doesn\'92t upset by an attack is no woman,\'94 said Johnny. \'93It was a very unsuccessful attack,\'94 said the other. \'93Fortunately she did not see it from too close. We must never let her see one from close regardless of the danger. It is too strong a thing. From where she saw it is only a picture. Like old-fashioned battle scene.\'94 \'93She has a kind heart,\'94 said Johnny. \'93Different than you, you old lice.\'94 \'93I have a kind heart,\'94 I said. \'93And it\'92s louse. Not lice. Lice is the plural.\'94 \'93I like lice better,\'94 said Johnny. \'93It sounds more determined.\'94 But he put up his hand and rubbed out the words written in lipstick on the window. \'93We make a new joke tomorrow,\'94 he said. \'93It\'92s all right now about the writing on the mirror.\'94 \'93Good,\'94 I said. \'93I\'92m glad.\'94 \'93You old lice,\'94 said Johnny and slapped me on the back. \'93Louse is the word.\'94 \'93No. Lice. I like much better. Is many times more determined.\'94 \'93Go to hell.\'94 \'93Good,\'94 said Johnny, smiling happily. \'93Now we are all good friends again. In a war we must all be careful not to hurt each other\'92s feelings.\'94 \'93I Guess Everything Reminds You of Something\'94 is a completed short story set in Cuba, where Hemingway made his home at the Finca Vig\'eda from 1939 to 1959. I Guess Everything Reminds You of Something \'93IT\'92S A VERY GOOD STORY ,\'94 THE BOY\'92S father said. \'93Do you know how good it is?\'94 \'93I didn\'92t want her to send it to you, Papa.\'94 \'93What else have you written?\'94 \'93That\'92s the only story. Truly I didn\'92t want her to send it to you. But when it won the prize\'97\'94 \'93She wants me to help you. But if you can write that well you don\'92t need anyone to help you. All you need is to write. How long did it take you to write that story?\'94 \'93Not very long.\'94 \'93Where did you learn about that type of gull?\'94 \'93In the Bahamas I guess.\'94 \'93You never went to the Dog Rocks nor to Elbow Key. There weren\'92t any gulls nor terns nested at Cat Key nor Bimini. At Key West you would only have seen least terns nesting.\'94 \'93Killem Peters. Sure. They nest on the coral rocks.\'94 \'93Right on the flats,\'94 his father said. \'93Where would you have known gulls like the one in the story?\'94 \'93Maybe you told me about them, Papa.\'94 \'93It\'92s a very fine story. It reminds me of a story I read a long time ago.\'94 \'93I guess everything reminds you of something,\'94 the boy said. That summer the boy read books that his father found for him in the library and when he would come over to the main house for lunch, if he had not been playing baseball or had not been down at the club shooting, he would often say he had been writing. \'93Show it to me when you want to or ask me about any trouble,\'94 his father said. \'93Write about something that you know.\'94 \'93I am,\'94 the boy said. \'93I don\'92t want to look over your shoulder or breathe down your neck,\'94 his father said. \'93If you want, though, I can set you some simple problems about things we both know. It would be good training.\'94 \'93I think I\'92m going all right.\'94 \'93Don\'92t show it to me until you want to then. How did you like \'91Far Away and Long Ago\'92?\'94 \'93I liked it very much.\'94 \'93The sort of problems I meant were: we could go into the market together or to the cockfight and then each of us write down what we saw. What it really was that you saw that stayed with you. Things like the handler opening the rooster\'92s bill and blowing in his throat when the referee would let them pick up and handle them before pitting again. The small things. To see what we each saw.\'94 The boy nodded and then looked down at his plate. \'93Or we can go into the caf\'e9 and shake a few rounds of poker dice and you write what it was in the conversation that you heard. Not try to write everything. Only what you heard that meant anything.\'94 \'93I\'92m afraid that I\'92m not ready for that yet, Papa. I think I\'92d better go on the way I did in the story.\'94 \'93Do that then. I don\'92t want to interfere or influence you. Those were just exercises. I\'92d have been glad to do them with you. They\'92re like five-finger exercises. Those weren\'92t especially good. We can make better ones.\'94 \'93Probably it\'92s better for me to go on the way it was in the story.\'94 \'93Sure,\'94 his father said. I could not write that well when I was his age, his father thought. I never knew anyone else that could either. But I never knew anyone else that could shoot better at ten than this boy could; not just show-off shooting, but shooting in competition with grown men and professionals. He shot the same way in the field when he was twelve. He shot as though he had built-in radar. He never took a shot out of range nor let a driven bird come too close and he shot with beautiful style and an absolute timing and precision on high pheasants and in pass shooting at ducks. At live pigeons, in competition, when he walked out on the cement, spun the wheel and walked to the metal plaque that marked the black stripe of his yardage, the pros were silent and watching. He was the only shooter that the crowd became dead silent for. Some of the pros smiled as though at a secret when he put his gun to his shoulder and looked back to see where the heel of the stock rested against his shoulder. Then his cheek went down against the comb, his left hand was far forward, his weight was forward on his left foot. The muzzle of the gun rose and lowered, then swept to left, to right, and back to center. The heel of his right foot lifted gently as all of him leaned behind the two loads in the chambers. \'93Ready,\'94 he said in that low, hoarse voice that did not belong to a small boy. \'93Ready,\'94 answered the trapper. \'93Pull,\'94 said the hoarse voice and from whichever of the five traps the grey racing pigeon came out, and at whatever angle his wings drove him in full, low flight above the green grass toward the white, low fence, the load of the first barrel swung into him and the load from the second barrel drove through the first. As the bird collapsed in flight, his head falling forward, only the great shots saw the impact of the second load driving through onto the bird already dead in the air. The boy would break his gun and walk back in off the cement toward the pavilion, no expression on his face, his eyes down, never giving any recognition to applause and saying, \'93Thanks,\'94 in the strange hoarse voice if some pro said, \'93Good bird, Stevie.\'94 He would put his gun in the rack and wait to watch his father shoot and then the two of them would walk off together to the outdoor bar. \'93Can I drink a Coca-Cola, Papa?\'94 \'93Better not drink more than half a one.\'94 \'93All right. I\'92m sorry I was so slow. I shouldn\'92t have let the bird get hard.\'94 \'93He was a strong, low driver, Stevie.\'94 \'93Nobody\'92d ever have known it if I hadn\'92t been slow.\'94 \'93You\'92re doing all right.\'94 \'93I\'92ll get my speed back. Don\'92t worry, Papa. Just this little bit of Coke won\'92t slow me.\'94 His next bird died in the air as the spring arm of the sunken trap swung him up from the opening in the hidden trench into driving flight. Everyone could see the second barrel hit him in the air before he hit the ground. He had not gone a yard from the trap. As the boy came in one of the local shooters said. \'93Well, you got an easy one, Stevie.\'94 The boy nodded and put up his gun. He looked at the scoreboard. There were four other shooters before his father. He went to find him. \'93You\'92ve got your speed back,\'94 his father said. \'93I heard the trap,\'94 the boy said. \'93I don\'92t want to throw you off, Papa. You can hear all of them I know. But now the number two trap is about twice as loud as any of the others. They ought to grease it. Nobody\'92s noticed it I don\'92t think.\'94 \'93I always swing on the noise of the trap.\'94 \'93Sure. But if it\'92s extra loud it\'92s to your left. Left is loud.\'94 His father did not draw a bird from the number two trap for the next three rounds. When he did he did not hear the trap and killed the bird with his second barrel far out so that it just hit the fence to fall inside. \'93Geez, Papa, I\'92m sorry,\'94 the boy said. \'93They greased it. I should have kept my damned mouth shut.\'94 It was the night after the last big international shoot that they had ever shot in together that they had been talking and the boy had said, \'93I don\'92t understand how anyone ever misses a pigeon.\'94 \'93Don\'92t ever say that to anybody else,\'94 his father said. \'93No. I mean it really. There\'92s no reason ever to miss one. The one I lost on I hit twice but it fell dead outside.\'94 \'93That\'92s how you lose.\'94 \'93I understand that. That\'92s how I lost. But I don\'92t see how any real shooter can miss one.\'94 \'93Maybe you will in twenty years,\'94 his father said. \'93I didn\'92t mean to be rude, Papa.\'94 \'93That\'92s all right,\'94 his father said. \'93Only don\'92t say it to other people.\'94 He was thinking of that when he wondered about the story and about the boy\'92s writing. With all his unbelievable talent the boy had not become the shooter he was on live birds by himself nor without being taught and disciplined. He had forgotten now all about the training. He had forgotten how when he started to miss live birds his father would take his shirt off him and show him the bruise on his arm where he had placed the gun incorrectly. He had cured him of that by having him always look back at his shoulder to be sure he had mounted the gun before he called for a bird. He had forgotten the discipline of weight on your forward foot, keep your head down and swing. How do you know your weight is on your forward foot? By raising your right heel. Head down, swing and speed. Now it doesn\'92t matter what your score is. I want you to take them as soon as they leave the trap. Never look at any part of the bird but the bill. Swing with their bills. If you can\'92t see the bill swing where it would be. What I want from you now is speed. The boy was a wonderful natural shot but he had worked with him to make him a perfect shot and each year when he would take him and start on his speed he would start killing a six or eight out of ten. Then move to nine out of ten; hang there, and then move up to a twenty out of twenty only to be beaten by the luck that separated perfect shooters in the end. He never showed his father the second story. It was not finished to his satisfaction at the end of vacation. He said he wanted to get it absolutely right before he showed it. As soon as he got it right he was going to send it to his father. He had had a very good vacation, he said, one of the best and he was glad he had such good reading too and he thanked his father for not pushing him too hard on the writing because after all a vacation is a vacation and this had been a fine one, maybe one of the very best, and they certainly had had some wonderful times they certainly had. It was seven years later that his father read the prize-winning story again. It was in a book that he found in checking through some books in the boy\'92s old room. As soon as he saw it he knew where the story had come from. He remembered the long-ago feeling of familiarity. He turned through the pages and there it was, unchanged and with the same title, in a book of very good short stories by an Irish writer. The boy had copied it exactly from the book and used the original title. In the last five of the seven years between the summer of the prize-winning story and the day his father ran onto the book the boy had done everything hateful and stupid that he could, his father thought. But it was because he was sick his father had told himself. His vileness came on from a sickness. He was all right until then. But that had all started a year or more after that last summer. Now he knew that boy had never been any good. He had thought so often looking back on things. And it was sad to know that shooting did not mean a thing. \'93Great News from the Mainland\'94 is another completed short story set in Cuba. Great News from the Mainland FOR THREE DAYS IT BLEW OUT OF THE south bending the fronds of the royal palms until they were parted in a line forward and away from the grey trunks that bent with the heavy wind. As the wind increased the dark green stems of the fronds blew wildly as the wind killed them. The branches of the mango trees shook and snapped in the wind and its heat burned the mango flowers until they were brown and dusty and their stems dried. The grass dried and there was no more moisture in the soil and it was dust in the wind. The wind blew day and night for five days and when it stopped half the palm fronds hung dead against the trunks, the green mangos lay on the ground and on the trees and the blossoms were dead and the stems dry. The mango crop was gone along with all the other things that went that year. The call he had put in on the telephone came through from the mainland and the man said, \'93Yes, Dr. Simpson,\'94 and then heard the cracker voice say, \'93Mr. Wheeler? Well sir that boy of yours certainly surprised us all today. He really did. We were giving him the usual sodium pentothal before the shock treatment and I\'92ve always noticed that boy has an unusual resistance to sodium pentothal. Never took drugs did he?\'94 \'93Not as far as I know.\'94 \'93No? Well naturally one never knows. But he certainly put on a performance today. Threw five of us around just as though we were children. Five grown men I tell you. Had to postpone the treatment. Of course he has a morbid fear of electric shock that\'92s completely unjustified and that\'92s why I use the sodium pentothal but there was no question of administering it today. Now I regard it as an excellent sign. He hasn\'92t revolted against anything Mr. Wheeler. This is the most favorable sign I\'92ve seen. That boy\'92s really making progress Mr. Wheeler. I was proud of him. Why I said to him, \'91Stephen I didn\'92t know you had it in you.\'92 You can be proud and satisfied at the way he\'92s getting along. He wrote me one of the most interesting and significant letters right after the incident. I\'92m sending it over to you. You didn\'92t get the other letters? That\'92s right. That\'92s right there was a little delay in getting them off. My secretary has been literally swamped, you know how it is Mr. Wheeler and I\'92m a busy man. Well he used the vilest language of course when he was resisting the treatment but he apologized to me in the most gentlemanly way. You should see that boy now Mr. Wheeler. He\'92s taking care of his appearance now. He\'92s just the typical fashion plate of a young college gentleman.\'94 \'93What about the treatment?\'94 \'93Oh he\'92ll get the treatment. I\'92ll just have to double up on the quantity of the sodium pentothal first. His resistance to that is simply amazing. You understand these are extra treatments that he requested himself of course. There might be something masochistic in that. He even suggested that himself in his letter. But I don\'92t think so. I think that boy\'92s beginning to get a grasp of reality. I\'92m sending you the letter. You can be very encouraged about that boy Mr. Wheeler.\'94 \'93How\'92s the weather over there?\'94 \'93What\'92s that? Oh the weather. Well it\'92s just a bit off from what I\'92d describe as typical for this time of year. No it\'92s not entirely typical. There has been some unreasonable weather to be frank. You call up anytime Mr. Wheeler. I wouldn\'92t be upset or worried about the progress that boy\'92s making for a moment. I\'92ll send you his letter. You could almost describe it as a brilliant letter. Yes Mr. Wheeler. No Mr. Wheeler I\'92d say everything\'92s going finely Mr. Wheeler. There\'92s nothing to worry about. You\'92d like to talk to him? I\'92ll see that your call goes through at the hospital. Tomorrow is better perhaps. He\'92s naturally a little exhausted after the treatment. Tomorrow would be better. You say he didn\'92t have the treatment? That\'92s quite correct Mr. Wheeler. I had no idea that boy was capable of anything like that strength. That\'92s correct. The treatment is for tomorrow. I\'92ll just increase the sodium pentothal. These additional treatments he requested himself, remember. Give him a call day after tomorrow. That\'92s a free day for him and he will have had a rest. That\'92s right Mr. Wheeler that\'92s right. You have no cause for anxiety. I would say his progress could not be more satisfactory. Today\'92s Tuesday. You call him on Thursday. Any time Thursday.\'94 The wind was back in the south on Thursday. There was not much it could do now to trees except blow the dead brown palm branches and bum the few mango blossoms whose stems had not died. But it yellowed the leaves of the alamo trees and blew dust and stripped leaves over the swimming pool. It blew dust through the screens into the house and sifted it into the books and over the pictures. The milk cows lay with their rumps against the wind and the cuds they chewed were gritty. The winds always come in Lent, Mr. Wheeler remembered. That was the local name for them. All bad winds had local names and bad writers always became literary about them. He had resisted this as he had resisted writing that the palm branches blew forward making a line against the trunk as the hair of young women parts and blows forward when they stand with their backs to a storm. He had resisted writing of the scent of the mango blooms when they had walked together on the night before the wind started and the noise of the bees in them outside his window. There were no bees now and he refused to use the foreign word for this wind. There had been too much bad literature made about the foreign names for winds and he knew too many of those names. Mr. Wheeler was writing in longhand because he did not wish to uncover the typewriter in the Lenten wind. The houseboy who had been a contemporary and a friend of his son when they were both growing up came in and said, \'93The call to Stevie is ready.\'94 \'93Hi Papa,\'94 Stephen said in a hoarse voice. \'93I\'92m fine Papa really fine. This is the time. I\'92ve really got this thing beat now. You have no idea. I\'92ve really got a grasp of reality now. Dr. Simpson? Oh he\'92s fine. I really have confidence in him. He\'92s a good man Papa. I really have faith in him. He\'92s more down to earth than the majority of those people. He\'92s giving me a few extra treatments. How\'92s everybody? Good. How\'92s the weather. Good that\'92s fine. No difficulty about treatments. No. Not at all. Everything\'92s fine really. Glad everything\'92s so good with you. This time I\'92ve really got the answer. Well we mustn\'92t waste money on the telephone. Give my love to everyone. Good-bye Papa. See you soon.\'94 \'93Stevie sent you his best,\'94 I said to the houseboy. He smiled happily, remembering the old days. \'93That\'92s nice of him. How is he?\'94 \'93Fine,\'94 I said. \'93He says everything is fine.\'94 \'93The Strange Country\'94 comprises four chapters of an uncompleted novel that Hemingway worked on at intervals in 1946-1947 and 1950-1951. These scenes represent preliminary material for an early version of Islands in the Stream, which was published posthumously in 1970. Hemingway apparently discarded these chapters when he changed the direction of the novel as he worked on it. Readers will note the reuse of names subsequently given to other characters in the final version of Islands in the Stream. None of these rearrangements diminishes the unity and integrity of \'93The Strange Country.\'94 The Strange Country MIAMI WAS HOT AND MUGGY AND THE land wind that blew from the Everglades brought mosquitoes even in the morning. \'93We\'92ll get out as soon as we can,\'94 Roger said. \'93I\'92ll have to get some money. Do you know anything about cars?\'94 \'93Not very much.\'94 \'93You might look and see what there is advertised in the classified in the paper and I\'92ll get some money here to Western Union.\'94 \'93Can you get it just like that?\'94 \'93If I get the call through in time so my lawyer can get it off.\'94 They were up on the thirteenth floor of a hotel on Biscayne Boulevard and the bellboy had just gone down for the papers and some other purchases. There were two rooms and they overlooked the bay, the park and the traffic passing on the Boulevard. They were registered under their own names. \'93You take the corner one,\'94 Roger had said. \'93It will have a little breeze in it maybe. I\'92ll get on the telephone in the other room.\'94 \'93What can I do to help?\'94 \'93You run through the classifieds on motorcars for sale in one paper and I\'92ll take the other.\'94 \'93What sort of a car?\'94 \'93A convertible with good rubber. The best one we can get.\'94 \'93How much money do you think we\'92ll have?\'94 \'93I\'92m going to try for five thousand.\'94 \'93That\'92s wonderful. Do you think you can get it?\'94 \'93I don\'92t know. I\'92ll get going on him now,\'94 Roger said and went into the other room. He shut the door and then opened it. \'93Do you still love me?\'94 \'93I though that was all settled,\'94 she said. \'93Please kiss me now before the boy comes back.\'94 \'93Good.\'94 He held her solidly against him and kissed her hard. \'93That\'92s better,\'94 she said. \'93Why did we have to have separate rooms?\'94 \'93I thought I might have to be identified to get the money.\'94 \'93Oh.\'94 \'93If we have any luck we won\'92t have to stay in these.\'94 \'93Can we really do it all that fast?\'94 \'93If we have any luck.\'94 \'93Then can we be Mr. and Mrs. Gilch?\'94 \'93Mr. and Mrs. Stephen Gilch.\'94 \'93Mr. and Mrs. Stephen Brat-Gilch.\'94 \'93I\'92d better make the call.\'94 \'93Don\'92t stay away an awfully long time though.\'94 They had lunch at a seafood restaurant owned by Greeks. It was an air-conditioned oasis against the heavy heat of the town and the food had certainly originally come out of the ocean but it was to Eddy\'92s cooking of the same things as old re-used grease is to fresh browned butter. But there was a good bottle of really cold, dry, resiny tasting Greek white wine and for dessert they had cherry pie. \'93Let\'92s go to Greece and the islands,\'94 she said. \'93Haven\'92t you ever been there?\'94 \'93One summer. I loved it.\'94 \'93We\'92ll go there.\'94 By two o\'92clock the money was at the Western Union. It was thirty-five hundred instead of five thousand and by three-thirty they had bought a used Buick convertible with only six thousand miles on it. It had two good spares, set-in well fenders, a radio, a big spotlight, plenty of luggage space in the rear and it was sand colored. By five-thirty they had made various other purchases, checked out of the hotel and the doorman was stowing their bags into the back of the car. It was still deadly hot. Roger, who was sweating heavily in his heavy uniform, as suitable to the subtropics in summer as shorts would be to Labrador in winter, tipped the doorman and got into the car and they drove along Biscayne Boulevard and turned west to get onto the road to Coral Gables and the Tamiami Trail. \'93How do you feel?\'94 he asked the girl. \'93Wonderful. Do you think it\'92s true?\'94 \'93I know it\'92s true because it\'92s so damned hot and we didn\'92t get the five thousand.\'94 \'93Do you think we paid too much for the car?\'94 \'93No. Just right.\'94 \'93Did you get the insurance?\'94 \'93Yes. And joined the A.A.A.\'94 \'93Aren\'92t we fast?\'94 \'93We\'92re terrific.\'94 \'93Have you got the rest of the money?\'94 \'93Sure. Pinned in my shirt.\'94 \'93That\'92s our bank.\'94 \'93It\'92s all we\'92ve got.\'94 \'93How do you think it will last?\'94 \'93It won\'92t have to last. I\'92ll make some more.\'94 \'93It will have to last for a while.\'94 \'93It will.\'94 \'93Roger.\'94 \'93Yes, daughter.\'94 \'93Do you love me?\'94 \'93I don\'92t know.\'94 \'93Say it.\'94 \'93I don\'92t know. But I\'92m going to damn well find out.\'94 \'93I love you. Hard. Hard. Hard.\'94 \'93You keep that up. That will be a big help to me.\'94 \'93Why don\'92t you say you love me?\'94 \'93Let\'92s wait.\'94 She had been holding her hand on his thigh while he drove and now she took it away. \'93All right,\'94 she said. \'93We\'92ll wait.\'94 They were driving west now on the broad Coral Gables road through the flat heat-stricken outskirts of Miami, past stores, filling stations and markets with cars with people going home from the city passing them steadily. Now they passed Coral Gables to their left with the buildings that looked out of the Basso Veneto rising from the Florida prairie and ahead the road stretched straight and heatwelted across what had once been the Everglades. Roger drove faster now and the movement of the car through the heavy air made the air cool as it came in through the scoop in the dash and the slanted glass of the ventilators. \'93She\'92s a lovely car,\'94 the girl said. \'93Weren\'92t we lucky to get her?\'94 \'93Very.\'94 \'93We\'92re pretty lucky don\'92t you think?\'94 \'93So far.\'94 \'93You\'92ve gotten awfully cautious on me.\'94 \'93Not really.\'94 \'93But we can be jolly can\'92t we?\'94 \'93I\'92m jolly.\'94 \'93You don\'92t sound awfully jolly.\'94 \'93Well maybe then I\'92m not.\'94 \'93Couldn\'92t you be though? You see I really am.\'94 \'93I will be,\'94 Roger said. \'93I promise.\'94 Looking ahead at the road he had driven so many times in his life, seeing it stretch ahead, knowing it was the same road with the ditches on either side and the forest and the swamps, knowing that only the car was different, that only who was with him was different, Roger felt the old hollowness coming inside of him and knew he must stop it. \'93I love you, daughter,\'94 he said. He did not think it was true. But it sounded all right as he said it. \'93I love you very much and I\'92m going to try to be very good to you.\'94 \'93And you\'92re going to be jolly.\'94 \'93And I\'92m going to be jolly.\'94 \'93That\'92s wonderful,\'94 she said. \'93Have we started already?\'94 \'93We\'92re on the road.\'94 \'93When will we see the birds?\'94 \'93They\'92re much further in this time of year.\'94 \'93Roger.\'94 \'93Yes, Bratchen.\'94 \'93You don\'92t have to be jolly if you don\'92t feel like it. We\'92ll be jolly enough. You feel however you feel and I\'92ll be jolly for us both. I can\'92t help it today.\'94 He saw on ahead where the road turned to the right and ran northwest through the forest swamp instead of west. That was good. That was really much better. Pretty soon they would come to the big osprey\'92s nest in the dead cypress tree. They had just passed the place where he had killed the rattlesnake that winter driving through here with David\'92s mother before Andrew was born. That was the year they both bought Seminole shirts at the trading post at Everglades and wore them in the car. He had given the big rattlesnake to some Indians that had come in to trade and they were pleased with the snake because he had a fine hide and twelve rattles and Roger remembered how heavy and thick he was when he lifted him with his huge, flattened head hanging and how the Indian smiled when he took him. That was the year they shot the wild turkey as he crossed the road that early morning coming out of the mist that was just thinning with the first sun, the cypresses showing black in the silver mist and the turkey brown-bronze and lovely as he stepped onto the road, stepping high-headed, then crouching to run, then flopping on the road. \'93I\'92m fine,\'94 he told the girl. \'93We get into some nice country now.\'94 \'93Where do you think we\'92ll get to tonight?\'94 \'93We\'92ll find some place. Once we get to the gulf side this breeze will be a sea breeze instead of a land breeze and it will be cool.\'94 \'93That will be lovely,\'94 the girl said. \'93I hated to think of staying the first night in that hotel.\'94 \'93We were awfully lucky to get away. I didn\'92t think we could do it that quickly.\'94 \'93I wonder how Tom is.\'94 \'93Lonely,\'94 Roger said. \'93Isn\'92t he a wonderful guy?\'94 \'93He\'92s my best friend and my conscience and my father and my brother and my banker. He\'92s like a saint. Only jolly.\'94 \'93I never knew anybody as fine,\'94 she said. \'93It breaks your heart the way he loves you and the boys.\'94 \'93I wish he could have them all summer.\'94 \'93Won\'92t you miss them terribly?\'94 \'93I miss them all the time.\'94 They had put the wild turkey in the back of the seat and he had been so heavy, warm and beautiful with the shining bronze plumage, so different from the blues and blacks of a domestic turkey, and David\'92s mother was so excited she could hardly speak. And then she had said, \'93No. Let me hold him. I want to see him again. We can put him away later.\'94 And he had put a newspaper on her lap and she had tucked the bird\'92s bloodied head under his wing, folding the wing carefully over it, and sat there stroking and smoothing his breast feathers while he, Roger, drove. Finally she said, \'93He\'92s cold now\'94 and had wrapped him in the paper and put him in the back of the seat again and said, \'93Thank you for letting me keep him when I wanted him so much.\'94 Roger had kissed her while he drove and she had said, \'93Oh Roger we\'92re so happy and we always will be won\'92t we?\'94 That was just around this next slanting turn the road makes up ahead. The sun was down to the top of the treetops now. But they had not seen the birds. \'93You won\'92t miss them so much you won\'92t be able to love me will you?\'94 \'93No. Truly.\'94 \'93I understand it making you sad. But you were going to be away from them anyway weren\'92t you?\'94 \'93Sure. Please don\'92t worry, daughter.\'94 \'93I like it when you say daughter. Say it again.\'94 \'93It comes at the end of a sentence,\'94 he said. \'93Daughter.\'94 \'93Maybe it\'92s because I\'92m younger,\'94 she said. \'93I love the kids. I love them all three, hard, and I think they\'92re wonderful. I didn\'92t know there were kids like that. But Andy\'92s too young for me to marry and I love you. So I forget about them and just am as happy as I can be to be with you.\'94 \'93You\'92re good.\'94 \'93I\'92m not really. I\'92m awfully difficult. But I do know when I love someone and I\'92ve loved you ever since I can remember. So I\'92m going to try to be good.\'94 \'93You\'92re being wonderful.\'94 \'93Oh I can be much better than this.\'94 \'93Don\'92t try.\'94 \'93I\'92m not going to for a while. Roger I\'92m so happy. We\'92ll be happy won\'92t we?\'94 \'93Yes, daughter.\'94 \'93And we can be happy for always can\'92t we? I know it sounds silly me being Mother\'92s daughter and you with everyone. But I believe in it and it\'92s possible. I know it\'92s possible. I\'92ve loved you all my life and if that\'92s possible it\'92s possible to be happy isn\'92t it? Say it is anyway.\'94 \'93I think it is.\'94 He\'92d always said it was. Not in this car though. In other cars in other countries. But he had said it enough in this country too and he had believed it. It would have been possible too. Everything was possible once. It was possible on this road on that stretch that now lay ahead where the canal ran clear and flowing by the right-hand side of the road where the Indian poled his dugout. There was no Indian there now. That was before. When it was possible. Before the birds were gone. That was the other year before the turkey. That year before the big rattlesnake was the year they saw the Indian poling the dugout and the buck in the bow of the dugout with his white throat and chest, his slender legs with the delicate shaped hoofs, shaped like a broken heart, drawn up and his head with the beautiful miniature horns looking toward the Indian. They had stopped the car and spoken to the Indian but he did not understand English and grinned and the small buck lay there dead with his eyes open looking straight at the Indian. It was possible then and for five years after. But what was possible now? Nothing was possible now unless he himself was and he must say the things if there was ever to be a chance of them being true. Even if it were wrong to say them he must say them. They never could be true unless he said them. He had to say them and then perhaps he could feel them and then perhaps he could believe them. And then perhaps they would be true. Perhaps is an ugly word, he thought, but it is even worse on the end of your cigar. \'93Have you got cigarettes?\'94 he asked the girl. \'93I don\'92t know whether that lighter works.\'94 \'93I haven\'92t tried it. I haven\'92t smoked. I\'92ve felt so unnervous.\'94 \'93You don\'92t just smoke when you\'92re nervous do you?\'94 \'93I think so. Mostly.\'94 \'93Try the lighter.\'94 \'93All right.\'94 \'93Who was the guy you married?\'94 \'93Oh let\'92s not talk about him.\'94 \'93No. I just meant who was he?\'94 \'93No one you know.\'94 \'93Don\'92t you really want to tell me about him?\'94 \'93No, Roger. No.\'94 \'93All right.\'94 \'93I\'92m sorry,\'94 she said. \'93He was English.\'94 \'93Was?\'94 \'93Is. But I like was better. Besides you said was.\'94 \'93Was is a good word,\'94 he said. \'93It\'92s a hell of a lot better word than perhaps.\'94 \'93All right. I don\'92t understand it at all but I believe you. Roger?\'94 \'93Yes, daughter.\'94 \'93Do you feel any better?\'94 \'93Much. I\'92m fine.\'94 \'93All right. I\'92ll tell you about him. He turned out to be gay. That was it. He hadn\'92t said anything about it and he didn\'92t act that way at all. Not at all. Truly. You probably think I\'92m stupid. But he didn\'92t in any way. He was absolutely beautiful. You know how they can be. And then I found out about it. Right away of course. The same night actually. Now is it all right not to talk about it?\'94 \'93Poor Helena.\'94 \'93Don\'92t call me Helena. Call me daughter.\'94 \'93My poor daughter. My darling.\'94 \'93That\'92s a nice word too. You mustn\'92t mix it with daughter though. It\'92s no good that way. Mummy knew him. I thought she might have said something. She just said she\'92d never noticed and when I said, \'91You might have noticed,\'92 she said, \'91I though you knew what you were doing and I had no call to interfere.\'92 I said, \'91Couldn\'92t you just have said something or couldn\'92t somebody just have said something?\'92 and she said, \'91Darling, everyone thought you knew what you were doing. Everyone. Everyone knows you don\'92t care anything about it yourself and I had every right to think you knew the facts of life in this right little tight little island.\'92\'94 She was sitting stiff and straight beside him now and she had no tone in her voice at all. She didn\'92t mimic. She simply used the exact words or as exactly as she remembered them. Roger thought they sounded quite exact. \'93Mummy was a great comfort,\'94 she said. \'93She said a lot of things to me that day.\'94 \'93Look,\'94 Roger said. \'93We\'92ll throw it all away. All of it. We\'92ll throw it all away now right here beside the road. Any of it you want to get rid of you can always tell me. But we\'92ve thrown it all away now and we\'92ve really thrown it away.\'94 \'93I want it to be like that,\'94 she said. \'93That\'92s how I started out. And you know I said at the start we\'92d give it a miss.\'94 \'93I know. I\'92m sorry. But I\'92m glad really because now we have thrown it away.\'94 \'93It\'92s nice of you. But you don\'92t have to make incantations or exorcisions or any of that. I can swim without water wings. And he was damned beautiful.\'94 \'93Spit it out. If that\'92s the way you want it.\'94 \'93Don\'92t be like that. You\'92re so damned superior you don\'92t have to be superior. Roger?\'94 \'93Yes, Bratchen.\'94 \'93I love you very much and we don\'92t have to do this any more do we?\'94 \'93No. Truly.\'94 \'93I\'92m so glad. Now will we be jolly?\'94 \'93Sure we will. Look,\'94 he said. \'93There are the birds. The first of them.\'94 They showed white in the cypress hammock that rose like an island of trees out of the swamp on their left the sun shining on them in the dark foliage and as the sun lowered more came flying across the sky, flying white and slow, their long legs stretched behind them. \'93They\'92re coming in for the night. They\'92ve been feeding out in the marsh. Watch the way they brake with their wings and the long legs slant forward to land.\'94 \'93Will we see the ibises too?\'94 \'93There they are.\'94 He had stopped the car and across the darkening swamp they could see the wood ibis crossing the sky with their pulsing flight to wheel and light in another island of trees. \'93They used to roost much closer.\'94 \'93Maybe we will see them in the morning,\'94 she said. \'93Do you want me to make a drink while we\'92ve stopped?\'94 \'93We can make it while we drive. The mosquitoes will get to us here.\'94 As he started the car there were a few mosquitoes in it, the big black Everglades type, but the rush of the wind took them out when he opened the door and slapped them out with his hand and the girl found two enameled cups in the packages they had brought and the carton that held a bottle of White Horse. She wiped the cups out with a paper napkin, poured in Scotch, the bottle still in the carton, put in lumps of ice from the thermos jug and poured soda into them. \'93Here\'92s to us,\'94 she said and gave him the cold enameled cup and he held it drinking slowly and driving on, holding the wheel with his left hand, driving along into the road that was dusky now. He put on the lights a little later and soon they cut far ahead into the dark and the two of them drank the whisky and it was what they needed and made them feel much better. There is always a chance, Roger thought, when a drink can still do what it is supposed to do. This drink had done exactly what it should do. \'93It tastes sort of slimy and slippery in a cup.\'94 \'93Enameled,\'94 Roger said. \'93That was pretty easy,\'94 she said. \'93Doesn\'92t it taste wonderfully?\'94 \'93It\'92s the first drink we\'92ve had all day. Except that resin wine at lunch. It\'92s our good friend,\'94 he said. \'93The old giant killer.\'94 \'93That\'92s a nice name for it. Did you always call it that?\'94 \'93Since the war. That\'92s when we first used it for that.\'94 \'93This forest would be a bad place for giants.\'94 \'93I think they\'92ve been killed off a long time,\'94 he said. \'93They probably hunted them out with those big swamp buggies with the huge tires.\'94 \'93That must be very elaborate. It\'92s easier with an enameled cup.\'94 \'93Tin cups make it taste even better,\'94 he said. \'93Not for giant killing. Just for how good it can be. But you ought to have ice cold spring water and the cup chilled in the spring and you look down in the spring and there are little plumes of sand that rise on the bottom where it\'92s bubbling.\'94 \'93Will we have that?\'94 \'93Sure. We\'92ll have everything. You can make a wonderful one with wild strawberries. If you have a lemon you cut half of it and squeeze it into the cup and leave the rind in the cup. Then you crush the wild strawberries into the cup and wash the sawdust off a piece of ice from the icehouse and put it in and then fill the cup with Scotch and then stir it till it\'92s all mixed and cold.\'94 \'93Don\'92t you put in any water?\'94 \'93No. The ice melts enough and there\'92s enough juice in the strawberries and from the lemon.\'94 \'93Do you think there will still be wild strawberries?\'94 \'93I\'92m sure there will be.\'94 \'93Do you think there will be enough to make a shortcake?\'94 \'93I\'92m pretty sure there will be.\'94 \'93We better not talk about it. I\'92m getting awfully hungry.\'94 \'93We\'92ll drive about another drink more,\'94 he said. \'93And then we ought to be there.\'94 They drove on in the night now with the swamp dark and high on both sides of the road and the good headlights lighting far ahead. The drinks drove the past away the way the headlights cut through the dark and Roger said. \'93Daughter, I\'92ll take another if you want to make it.\'94 When she had made it she said, \'93Why don\'92t you let me hold it and give it to you when you want it?\'94 \'93It doesn\'92t bother me driving.\'94 \'93It doesn\'92t bother me to hold it either. Doesn\'92t it make you feel good?\'94 \'93Better than anything.\'94 \'93Not than anything. But awfully good.\'94 Ahead now were the lights of a village where the trees were cleared away and Roger turned onto a road that ran to the left and drove past a drugstore, a general store, a restaurant and along a deserted paved street that ran to the sea. He turned right and drove on another paved street past vacant lots and scattered houses until they saw the lights of a filling station and a neon sign advertising cabins. The main highway ran past there joining the sea road and the cabins were toward the sea. They stopped the car at the filling station and Roger asked the middle-aged man who came out looking blue-skinned in the light of the sign to check the oil and water and fill the tank. \'93How are the cabins?\'94 Roger asked. \'93O.K., Cap,\'94 the man said. \'93Nice cabins. Clean cabins.\'94 \'93Got clean sheets?\'94 Roger asked. \'93Just as clean as you want them. You folks fixing to stay all night?\'94 \'93If we stay.\'94 \'93All night\'92s three dollars.\'94 \'93How\'92s for the lady to have a look at one?\'94 \'93Fine and dandy. She won\'92t ever see no finer mattresses. Sheets plumb clean. Shower. Perfect cross ventilation. Modern plumbing.\'94 \'93I\'92ll go in,\'94 the girl said. \'93Here take a key. You folks from Miami?\'94 \'93That\'92s right.\'94 \'93Prefer the West Coast myself,\'94 the man said. \'93Your oil\'92s O.K. and so\'92s your water.\'94 The girl came back to the car. \'93The one I saw is a splendid cabin. It\'92s cool too.\'94 \'93Breeze right off the Gulf of Mexico,\'94 the man said. \'93Going to blow all night. All tomorrow. Probably part of Thursday. Did you try that mattress?\'94 \'93Everything looked marvelous.\'94 \'93My old woman keeps them so goddam clean it\'92s a crime. She wears herself to death on them. I sent her up to the show tonight. Laundry\'92s the biggest item. But she does it. There it is. I just got nine into her.\'94 He went to hang up the hose. \'93He\'92s a little confusing,\'94 Helena whispered. \'93But it\'92s quite nice and clean.\'94 \'93Well you going to take her?\'94 the man asked. \'93Sure,\'94 Roger said. \'93We\'92ll take her.\'94 \'93Write in the book then.\'94 Roger wrote Mr. and Mrs. Robert Hutchins 9072 Surfside Drive Miami Beach and handed the book back. \'93Any kin to the educator?\'94 the man asked, making a note of the license number in the book. \'93No. I\'92m sorry.\'94 \'93Nothing to be sorry about,\'94 the man said. \'93I never thought much of him. Just read about him in the papers. Like me to help you with anything?\'94 \'93No. I\'92ll just run her in and we\'92ll put our things in.\'94 \'93That\'92s three and nine gallons makes five-fifty with the state tax.\'94 \'93Where can we get something to eat?\'94 Roger asked. \'93Two different places in town. Just about the same.\'94 \'93You prefer either one?\'94 \'93People speak pretty highly of the Green Lantern.\'94 \'93I think I\'92ve heard of it,\'94 the girl said. \'93Somewhere.\'94 \'93You might. Widow woman runs it.\'94 \'93I believe that\'92s the place,\'94 the girl said. \'93Sure you don\'92t want me to help you?\'94 \'93No. We\'92re fine,\'94 Roger said. \'93Just one thing I\'92d like to say,\'94 the man said. \'93Mrs. Hutchins certainly is a fine looking woman.\'94 \'93Thank you,\'94 Helena said. \'93I think that\'92s lovely of you. But I\'92m afraid it\'92s just that beautiful light.\'94 \'93No,\'94 he said. \'93I mean it true. From the heart.\'94 \'93I think we\'92d better go in,\'94 Helena said to Roger. \'93I don\'92t want you to lose me so early in the trip.\'94 Inside the cabin there was a double bed, a table covered with oilcloth, two chairs and a light bulb that hung down from the ceiling. There was a shower, a toilet and a washbowl with a mirror. Clean towels hung on a rack by the washbowl and there was a pole at one end of the room with some hangers. Roger brought in the bags and Helena put the ice jug, the two cups, and the cardboard canon with the Scotch in it on the table with the paper bag full of White Rock bottles. \'93Don\'92t look gloomy,\'94 she said. \'93The bed is clean. The sheets anyway.\'94 Roger put his arm around her and kissed her. \'93Put the light out please.\'94 Roger reached up to the light bulb and turned the switch. In the dark he kissed her, brushing his lips against hers, feeling them both fill without opening, feeling her trembling as he held her. Holding her tight against him, her head back now, he heard the sea on the beach and felt the wind cool through the window. He felt the silk of her hair over his arm and their bodies hard and taut and he dropped his hand on her breasts to feel them rise, quick-budding under his fingers. \'93Oh Roger,\'94 she said. \'93Please. Oh please.\'94 \'93Don\'92t talk.\'94 \'93Is that him? Oh he\'92s lovely.\'94 \'93Don\'92t talk.\'94 \'93He\'92ll be good to me. Won\'92t he. And I\'92ll try to be good to him. But isn\'92t he awfully big?\'94 \'93No.\'94 \'93Oh I love you so and I love him so. Do you think we should try now so we\'92ll know? I can\'92t stand it very much longer. Not knowing. I haven\'92t been able to stand it all afternoon.\'94 \'93We can try.\'94 \'93Oh let\'92s. Let\'92s try. Let\'92s try now.\'94 \'93Kiss me once more.\'94 In the dark he went into the strange country and it was very strange indeed, hard to enter, suddenly perilously difficult, then blindingly, happily, safely, encompassed; free of all doubts, all perils and all dreads, held unholdingly, to hold, to hold increasingly, unholdingly still to hold, taking away all things before, and all to come, bringing the beginning of bright happiness in darkness, closer, closer, closer now closer and ever closer, to go on past all belief, longer, finer, further, finer higher and higher to drive toward happiness suddenly, scaldingly achieved. \'93Oh darling,\'94 he said. \'93Oh darling.\'94 \'93Yes.\'94 \'93Thank you my dear blessed.\'94 \'93I\'92m dead,\'94 she said. \'93Don\'92t thank me. I\'92m dead.\'94 \'93Do you want\'97\'94 \'93No please. I\'92m dead.\'94 \'93Let\'92s\'97\'94 \'93No. Please believe me. I don\'92t know how to say it another way.\'94 Then later she said, \'93Roger.\'94 \'93Yes, daughter.\'94 \'93Are you sure?\'94 \'93Yes, daughter.\'94 \'93And you\'92re not disappointed because of anything?\'94 \'93No, daughter.\'94 \'93Do you think you\'92ll get to love me?\'94 \'93I love you,\'94 he lied. I love what we did he meant. \'93Say it again.\'94 \'93I love you,\'94 he lied again. \'93Say it once more.\'94 \'93I love you,\'94 he lied. \'93That\'92s three times,\'94 she said, in the dark. \'93I\'92ll try to make it come true.\'94 The wind blew cool on them and the noise the palm leaves made was almost like rain and after a while the girl said, \'93It will be lovely tonight but do you know what I am now?\'94 \'93Hungry.\'94 \'93Aren\'92t you a wonderful guesser?\'94 \'93I\'92m hungry too.\'94 They ate at the Green Lantern and the widow woman squirted Flit under the table and brought them fresh mullet roe browned crisp and fried with good bacon. They drank cold Regal beer and ate a steak each with mashed potatoes. The steak was thin from grass-fed beef and not very good but they were hungry and the girl kicked her shoes off under the table and put both her bare feet on Roger\'92s. She was beautiful and he loved to look at her and her feet felt very good on his. \'93Does it do it to you?\'94 she asked. \'93Of course.\'94 \'93Can I feel?\'94 \'93If the widow woman isn\'92t looking.\'94 \'93It does it to me too,\'94 she said. \'93Aren\'92t our bodies nice to each other?\'94 They ate pineapple pie for dessert and each had another cold bottle of Regal fresh from deep in the melting ice water of the cooler. \'93I have Flit on my feet,\'94 she said. \'93They\'92ll be nicer when they don\'92t have Flit on them.\'94 \'93They\'92re lovely with Flit. Push really hard with them.\'94 \'93I don\'92t want to push you out of the widow woman\'92s chair.\'94 \'93All right. That\'92s enough.\'94 \'93You never felt any better did you?\'94 \'93No,\'94 Roger said truly. \'93We don\'92t have to go to the movies do we?\'94 \'93Not unless you want to very much.\'94 \'93Let\'92s go back to our house and then start out terribly early in the morning.\'94 \'93That\'92s fine.\'94 They paid the widow woman and took a couple of bottles of the cold Regal in a paper sack and drove back to the cabins and put the car in the space between cabins. \'93The car knows about us already,\'94 she said as they came in the cabin. \'93It\'92s nice that way.\'94 \'93I was sort of shy with him at the start but now I feel like he\'92s our partner.\'94 \'93He\'92s a good car.\'94 \'93Do you think the man was shocked?\'94 \'93No. Jealous.\'94 \'93Isn\'92t he awfully old to be jealous?\'94 \'93Maybe. Maybe he\'92s just pleased.\'94 \'93Let\'92s not think about him.\'94 \'93I haven\'92t thought about him.\'94 \'93The car will protect us. He\'92s our good friend already. Did you see how friendly he was coming back from the widow woman\'92s?\'94 \'93I saw the difference.\'94 \'93Let\'92s not even put the light on.\'94 \'93Good,\'94 Roger said. \'93I\'92ll take a shower or do you want one first?\'94 \'93No. You.\'94 Then waiting in the bed he heard her in the bath splashing and then drying herself and then she came into the bed very fast and long and cool and wonderful feeling. \'93My lovely,\'94 he said. \'93My true lovely.\'94 \'93Are you glad to have me?\'94 \'93Yes, my darling.\'94 \'93And it\'92s really all right?\'94 \'93It\'92s wonderful.\'94 \'93We can do it all over the country and all over the world.\'94 \'93We\'92re here now.\'94 \'93All right. We\'92re here. Here. Where we are. Here. Oh the good, fine, lovely here in the dark. What a fine lovely wonderful here. So lovely in the dark. In the lovely dark. Please hear me here. Oh very gently here very gently please carefully Please Please very carefully Thank you carefully oh in the lovely dark.\'94 It was a strange country again but at the end he was not lonely and later, waking, it was still strange and no one spoke at all but it was their country now, not his nor hers, but theirs, truly, and they both knew it. In the dark with the wind blowing cool through the cabin she said, \'93Now you\'92re happy and you love me.\'94 \'93Now I\'92m happy and I love you.\'94 \'93You don\'92t have to repeat it. It\'92s true now.\'94 \'93I know it. I was awfully slow wasn\'92t I.\'94 \'93You were a little slow.\'94 \'93I\'92m awfully glad that I love you.\'94 \'93See?\'94 she said. \'93It isn\'92t hard.\'94 \'93I really love you.\'94 \'93I thought maybe you would. I mean I hoped you would.\'94 \'93I do.\'94 He held her very close and tight. \'93I really love you. Do you hear me?\'94 It was true, too, a thing which surprised him greatly, especially when he found that it was still true in the morning. They didn\'92t leave the next morning. Helena was still sleeping when Roger woke and he watched her sleeping, her hair spread over the pillow, swept up from her neck and swung to one side, her lovely brown face, the eyes and the lips closed looking even more beautiful than when she was awake. He noticed her eyelids were pale in the tanned face and how the long lashes lay, the sweetness of her lips, quiet now like a child\'92s asleep, and how her breasts showed under the sheet she had pulled up over her in the night. He thought he shouldn\'92t wake her and he was afraid if he kissed her it might, so he dressed and walked down into the village, feeling hollow and hungry and happy, smelling the early morning smells and hearing and seeing the birds and feeling and smelling the breeze that still blew in from the Gulf of Mexico, down to the other restaurant a block beyond the Green Lantern. It was really a lunch counter and he sat on a stool and ordered coffee with milk and a fried ham and egg sandwich on rye bread. There was a midnight edition of the Miami Herald on the counter that some trucker had left and he read about the military rebellion in Spain while he ate the sandwich and drank the coffee. He felt the egg spurt in the rye bread as his teeth went through the bread, the slice of dill pickle, the egg and the ham, and he smelled them all and the good early morning coffee smell as he lifted the cup. \'93They\'92re having plenty of trouble over there aren\'92t they,\'94 the man behind the counter said to him. He was an elderly man with his face tanned to the line of the sweatband of his hat and freckled dead white above that. Roger saw he had a thin, mean cracker mouth and he wore steel-rimmed glasses. \'93Plenty,\'94 Roger agreed. \'93All those European countries are the same,\'94 the man said. \'93Trouble after trouble.\'94 \'93I\'92ll take another cup of coffee,\'94 Roger said. He would let this one cool while he read the paper. \'93When they get to the bottom of it they\'92ll find the Pope there.\'94 The man drew the coffee and put the pot of milk by it. Roger looked up interestedly as he poured the milk into the cup. \'93Three men at the bottom of everything,\'94 the man told him. \'93The Pope, Herben Hoover, and Franklin Delano Roosevelt.\'94 Roger relaxed. The man went on to explain the interlocking interests of these three and Roger listened happily. America was a wonderful place he thought. Imagine buying a copy of Bouvard et P\'e9cuchet when you could get this free with your breakfast. You are getting something else with the newspaper, he thought. But in the meantime there is this. \'93What about the Jews?\'94 he asked finally. \'93Where do they come in?\'94 \'93The Jews are a thing of the past,\'94 the man behind the counter told him. \'93Henry Ford put them out of business when he published The Protocols of the Elders of Zion.\'94 \'93Do you think they\'92re through?\'94 \'93Not a doubt of it, fella,\'94 the man said. \'93You\'92ve seen the last of them.\'94 \'93That surprises me,\'94 Roger said. \'93Let me tell you something else,\'94 the man leaned forward. \'93Some day old Henry will get the Pope the same way. He\'92ll get him just like he got Wall Street.\'94 \'93Did he get Wall Street?\'94 \'93Oh boy,\'94 the man said. \'93They\'92re through.\'94 \'93Henry must be going good.\'94 \'93Henry? You really said something then. Henry\'92s the man of the ages.\'94 \'93What about Hitler?\'94 \'93Hitler\'92s a man of his word.\'94 \'93What about the Russians?\'94 \'93You\'92ve asked the right man that question. Let the Russian bear stay in his own backyard.\'94 \'93Well that pretty well fixes things up,\'94 Roger got up. \'93Things look good,\'94 the man behind the counter said. \'93I\'92m an optimist. Once old Henry tackles the Pope you\'92ll see all three of them crumble.\'94 \'93What papers do you read?\'94 \'93Any of them,\'94 the man said. \'93But I don\'92t get my political views there. I think things out for myself.\'94 \'93What do I owe you?\'94 \'93Forty-five cents.\'94 \'93It was a first class breakfast.\'94 \'93Come again,\'94 the man said and picked up the paper from where Roger had laid it on the counter. He\'92s going to figure some more things out for himself, Roger thought. Roger walked back to the tourist camp, buying a later edition of the Miami Herald at the drugstore. He also bought some razor blades, a tube of mentholated shaving cream, some Dentyne chewing gum, a bottle of Listerine and an alarm clock. When he arrived at the cabin and opened the door quietly and put his package on the table beside the thermos jug, the enameled cups, the brown paper bag full of White Rock bottles, and the two bottles of Regal beer they had forgotten to drink, Helena was still asleep. He sat in the chair and read the paper and watched her sleep. The sun was high enough so that it did not shine on her face and the breeze came in the other window, blowing across her as she slept without stirring. Roger read the paper trying to figure out from the various bulletins what had happened, really, and how it was going. She might as well sleep, he thought. We better get whatever there is each day now and as much and as well as we can because it\'92s started now. It came quicker than I thought it would. I do not have to go yet and we can have a while. Either it will be over right away and the Government will put it down or there will be plenty of time. If I had not had these two months with the kids I would have been over there for it. I\'92d rather have been with the kids, he thought. It\'92s too late to go now. It would probably be over before I would get there. Anyway there is going to be plenty of it from now on. There is going to be plenty of it for us all the rest of our lives. Plenty of it. Too damned much of it. I\'92ve had a wonderful time this summer with Tom and the kids and now I\'92ve got this girl and I\'92ll see how long my conscience holds out and when I have to go I\'92ll go to it and not worry about it until then. This is the start all right. Once it starts there isn\'92t going to be any end to it. I don\'92t see any end until we destroy them, there and here and everywhere. I don\'92t see any end to it ever, he thought. Not for us anyway. But maybe they will win this first one in a hurry, he thought, and I won\'92t have to go to this one. The thing had come that he had expected and known would come and that he had waited all one fall for in Madrid and he was already making excuses not to go to it. Spending the time he had with the children had been a valid excuse and he knew nothing had been planned in Spain until later. But now it had come and what was he doing? He was convincing himself there was no need for him to go. It is liable all to be over before I can get there, he thought. There is going to be plenty of time. There were other things that held him back too that he did not understand yet. They were the weaknesses that developed alongside his strengths like the crevices in a glacier under its covering of snow, or, if that is too pompous a comparison, like streaks of fat between muscles. These weaknesses were a part of the strengths unless they grew to dominate them; but they were mostly hidden and he did not understand them, nor know their uses. He did know, though, that this thing had come that he must go to and aid in every way he could, and yet he found varied reasons why he did not have to go. They were all varyingly honest and they were all weak except one; he would have to make some money to support his children and their mothers and he would have to do some decent writing to make that money or he would not be able to live with himself. I know six good stories, he thought, and I\'92m going to write them. That will get them done and I have to do them to make up for that whoring on the Coast. If I can really do four out of the six that will pretty well balance me with myself and make up for that job of whoring; whoring hell, it wasn\'92t even whoring it was like being asked to produce a sample of semen in a test tube that could be used for artificial insemination. You had an office to produce it in and a secretary to help you. Don\'92t forget. The hell with these sexual symbols. What he meant was that he had taken money for writing something that was not the absolute best he could write. Absolute best hell. It was crap. Goose-crap. Now he had to atone for that and recover his respect by writing as well as he could and better than he ever had. That sounded simple, he thought. Try and do it some time. But anyway if I do four as good as I can do and as straight as God could do them on one of his good days (Hi there Deity. Wish me luck Boy. Glad to hear you\'92re doing so good yourself.) then I\'92ll be straight with myself and if that six-ply bastard Nicholson can sell two out of the four that will stake the kids while we are gone. We? Sure. We. Don\'92t you remember about we? Like the little pig we we we all the way home. Only away from home. Home. That\'92s a laugh. There isn\'92t any home. Sure there is. This is home. All this. This cabin. This car. Those once fresh sheets. The Green Lantern and the widow woman and Regal beer. The drugstore and the breeze off the gulf. That crazy at the lunch counter and a ham and egg sandwich on rye. Make it two to go. One with a slice of raw onion. Fill her up and check the water and the oil please. Would you mind checking the tires please? The hiss of compressed air, administered courteously and free was home which was all oil-stained cement everywhere, all rubber worn on pavements, comfort facilities, and Cokes in red vending machines. The center line of highways was the boundary line of home. You get to think like one of those Vast-Spaces-of-America writers, he said to himself. Better watch it. Better get a load of this. Look at your girl sleeping and know this: Home is going to be where people do not have enough to eat. Home is going to be wherever men are oppressed. Home is going to be wherever evil is strongest and can be fought. Home is going to be where you will go from now on. But I don\'92t have to go yet, he thought. He had some reasons to delay it. No you don\'92t have to go yet, his conscience said. And I can write the stories, he said. Yes, you must write the stories and they must be as good as you can write and better. All right. Conscience, he thought. We have that all straightened out. I guess the way things are shaping up I had better let her sleep. You let her sleep, his conscience said. And you try very hard to take good care of her and not only that. You take good care of her. As good as I can, he told his conscience, and I\'92ll write at least four good ones. They better be good, his conscience said. They will be, he said. They\'92ll be the very best. So having promised and decided that did he then take a pencil and an old exercise book and, sharpening the pencil, start one of the stories there on the table while the girl slept? He did not. He poured an inch and a half of White Horse into one of the enameled cups, unscrewed the top of the ice jug and putting his hand in the cool depth pulled out a chunk of ice and put it in the cup. He opened a bottle of White Rock and poured some alongside of the ice and then swirled the lump of ice around with his finger before he drank. They\'92ve got Spanish Morocco, Sevilla, Pamplona, Burgos, Saragossa, he thought. We\'92ve got Barcelona, Madrid, Valencia and the Basque country. Both frontiers are still open It doesn\'92t look so bad. It looks good. I must get a good map though. I ought to be able to get a good map in New Orleans. Mobile maybe. He figured it as well as he could without a map. Saragossa is bad, he thought. That cuts the railway to Barcelona. Saragossa was a good Anarchist town. Not like Barcelona or L\'e9rida. But still plenty there. They can\'92t have put up much of a fight. Maybe they haven\'92t made their fight yet. They\'92d have to take Saragossa right away if they could. They would have to come up from Catalonia and take it. If they could keep the Madrid-Valencia-Barcelona railway and open up Madrid-SaragossaBarcelona and hold Ir\'fan it ought to be all right. With stuff coming in from France they ought to be able to build up in the Basque country and beat Mola in the north. That would be the toughest fight. That son of a bitch. He could not see the situation in the south except that the revolters would have to come up the valley of the Tagus to attack Madrid and they would probably try it from the north too. Would have to try it right away to try to force the passes of the Quadarramas the way Napoleon had done it. I wish I had not been with the kids, he thought. I wish the hell I was there. No you don\'92t wish you hadn\'92t been with the kids. You can\'92t go to everyone. Or you can\'92t be at them the minute they start. You\'92re not a firehorse and you have as much obligation to the kids as to anything in the world. Until the time comes when you have to fight to keep the world so it will be O.K. for them to live in, he corrected. But that sounded pompous so he corrected it to when it is more necessary to fight than to be with them. That was flat enough. That would come soon enough. Figure this one out and what you have to do and then stick with that, he told himself. Figure it as well as you can and then really do what you have to do. All right, he said. And he went on figuring. Helena slept until eleven-thirty and he had finished his second drink. \'93Why didn\'92t you wake me, darling?\'94 she said when she opened her eyes and rolled toward him and smiled. \'93You looked so lovely sleeping.\'94 \'93But we\'92ve missed our early start and the early morning on the road.\'94 \'93We\'92ll have it tomorrow morning.\'94 \'93Give kiss.\'94 \'93Kiss.\'94 \'93Give hug a lug.\'92 \'93Big hugalug\'94 \'93Feels better,\'94 she said. \'93Oh. Feels good.\'94 When she came out from the shower with her hair tucked under a rubber cap she said, \'93Darling, you didn\'92t have to drink because you were lonesome did you?\'94 \'93No. Just because I felt like it.\'94 \'93Did you feel badly though?\'94 \'93No. I felt wonderful.\'94 \'93I\'92m so glad. I\'92m ashamed. I just slept and slept.\'94 \'93We can swim before lunch.\'94 \'93I don\'92t know,\'94 she said. \'93I\'92m so hungry. Do you think we could have lunch and then take a nap or read or something and then swim?\'94 \'93Wunderbar.\'94 \'93We shouldn\'92t start and drive this afternoon?\'94 \'93See how you feel, daughter.\'94 \'93Come here,\'94 she said. He did. She put her arms around him and he felt her standing, fresh and cool from the shower, not dried yet, and he kissed her slowly and happily feeling the happy ache come in him where she had pressed firm against him. \'93How\'92s that?\'94 \'93That\'92s fine.\'94 \'93Good,\'94 she said. \'93Let\'92s drive tomorrow.\'94 The beach was white sand, almost as fine as flour, and it ran for miles. They took a long walk along it in the late afternoon, swimming out, lying in the clear water, floating and playing, and then swimming in to walk further along the beach. \'93It\'92s a lovelier beach than Bimini even,\'94 the girl said. \'93But the water\'92s not as fine. It doesn\'92t have that quality the Gulf Stream water has.\'94 \'93No I guess not. But after European beaches it\'92s unbelievable.\'94 The clean softness of the sand made walking a sensual pleasure that could be varied from the dry, soft, powdery to the just moist and yielding to the firm cool sand of the line of the receding tide. \'93I wish the boys were here to point out things and show me things and tell me about things.\'94 \'93I\'92ll point out things.\'94 \'93You don\'92t have to. You just walk ahead a little way and let me look at your back and your can.\'94 \'93You walk ahead.\'94 \'93No you.\'94 Then she came up to him and said, \'93Come on. Let\'92s run side by side.\'94 They jogged easily along the pleasant firm footing above the breaking waves. She ran well, almost too well for a girl, and when Roger forced the pace just a little she kept up easily. He kept the same pace and then lengthened it a little again. She kept even with him but said, \'93Hi. Don\'92t kill me,\'94 and he stopped and kissed her. She was hot from the running and she said, \'93No. Don\'92t.\'94 \'93It\'92s nice.\'94 \'93Must go in the water first,\'94 she said. They dove into the surf that was sandy where it broke and swam out to the clean green water. She stood up with just her head and shoulders out. \'93Kiss now.\'94 Her lips were salty and her face was wet with the seawater and as he kissed her she turned her head so that her sea wet hair swung against his shoulder. \'93Awfully salty but awfully good,\'94 she said. \'93Hold very hard.\'94 He did. \'93Here comes a big one,\'94 she said. \'93A really big one. Now lift high up and we\'92ll go over together in the wave.\'94 The wave rolled them over and over holding tight onto each other his legs tight around hers. \'93Better than drowning,\'94 she said. \'93So much better. Let\'92s do it once more.\'94 They picked a huge wave this time and when it hung and curled to break Roger threw them across the line of its breaking and when it crashed down it rolled them over and over like a piece of driftwood onto the sand. \'93Let\'92s get clean and lie on the sand,\'94 she said and they swam and dove in the clean water and then lay side by side on the cool, firm beach where the last inrush of the waves just touched their toes and ankles. \'93Roger, do you still love me?\'94 \'93Yes, daughter. Very much.\'94 \'93I love you. You were nice to play.\'94 \'93I had fun.\'94 \'93We do have fun don\'92t we.\'94 \'93It\'92s been lovely all day.\'94 \'93We only had a half a day because I was a bad girl and slept so late.\'94 \'93That was a good sound thing to do.\'94 \'93I didn\'92t do it to be good and sound. I did it because I couldn\'92t help it.\'94 He lay alongside of her, his right foot touching her left, his leg touching hers and he put his hand on her head and neck. \'93Old head\'92s awfully wet. You won\'92t catch a cold in the wind?\'94 \'93I don\'92t think so. If we lived by the ocean all the time I\'92d have to get my hair cut.\'94 \'93No.\'94 \'93It looks nice. You\'92d be surprised.\'94 \'93I love it the way it is.\'94 \'93It\'92s wonderful short for swimming.\'94 \'93Not for bed though.\'94 \'93I don\'92t know,\'94 she said. \'93You\'92d still be able to tell I was a girl.\'94 \'93Do you think so?\'94 \'93I\'92m almost sure. I could always remind you.\'94 \'93Daughter?\'94 \'93What, darling?\'94 \'93Did you always like making love?\'94 \'93No.\'94 \'93Do you now?\'94 \'93What do you think?\'94 \'93I think that if I had a good look both ways down the beach and there was no one in sight we\'92d be all right.\'94 \'93It\'92s an awfully lonely beach,\'94 she said. They walked back along the sea and the wind was still blowing and the rollers were breaking far out on the low tide. \'93It seems so awfully simple and as though there were no problems at all,\'94 the girl said. \'93I found you and then all we ever had to do was eat and sleep and make love. Of course it\'92s not like that at all.\'94 \'93Let\'92s keep it like that for a while.\'94 \'93I think we have a right to for a little while. Maybe not a right to. But I think we can. But won\'92t you be awfully bored with me?\'94 \'93No,\'94 he said. He was not lonely after this last time as he had nearly always been no matter with whom or where. He had not had the old death loneliness since the first time the night before. \'93You do something awfully good to me.\'94 \'93I\'92m glad if I really do. Wouldn\'92t it be awful if we were the kind of people who grated on each other\'92s nerves and had to have fights to love each other?\'94 \'93We\'92re not like that.\'94 \'93I\'92ll try not to be. But won\'92t you be bored just with me?\'94 \'93No.\'94 \'93But you\'92re thinking about something else now.\'94 \'93Yes. I was wondering if we could get a Miami Daily News.\'94 \'93That\'92s the afternoon paper?\'94 \'93I just wanted to read about the Spanish business.\'94 \'93The military revolt?\'94 \'93Yes.\'94 \'93Will you tell me about it?\'94 \'93Sure.\'94 He told her about it as well as he could within the limitations of his knowledge and his information. \'93Are you worried about it?\'94 \'93Yes. But I haven\'92t thought about it all afternoon.\'94 \'93We\'92ll see what there is in the paper,\'94 she said. \'93And tomorrow you can follow it on the radio in the car. Tomorrow we\'92ll really get an early start.\'94 \'93I bought an alarm clock.\'94 \'93Weren\'92t you intelligent? It\'92s wonderful to have such an intelligent husband. Roger?\'94 \'93Yes, daughter.\'94 \'93What do you think they will have to eat at the Green Lantern?\'94 The next day they started early in the morning before sunrise and by breakfast they had done a hundred miles and were away from the sea and the bays with their wooden docks and fish packing houses and up in the monotonous pine and scrub palmetto of the cattle country. They ate at a lunch counter in a town in the middle of the Florida prairie. The lunch counter was on the shady side of the square and looked out on a red bricked court house with its green lawn. \'93I don\'92t know how I ever held out for that second fifty,\'94 the girl said, looking at the menu. \'93We should have stopped at Punta Gorda,\'94 Roger said. \'93That would have been sensible.\'94 \'93We said we\'92d do a hundred though,\'94 the girl said. \'93And we did it. What are you going to have, darling?\'94 \'93I\'92m going to have ham and eggs and coffee and a big slice of raw onion,\'94 Roger told the waitress. \'93How do you want the eggs?\'94 \'93Straight up.\'94 \'93The lady?\'94 \'93I\'92ll have corned beef hash, browned, with two poached eggs,\'94 Helena said. \'93Tea, coffee, or milk?\'94 \'93Milk please.\'94 \'93What kind of juice?\'94 \'93Grapefruit please.\'94 \'93Two grapefruits. Do you mind the onion?\'94 Roger asked. \'93I love onions,\'94 she said. \'93Not as much as I love you though. And I never tried them for breakfast.\'94 \'93They\'92re good,\'94 Roger said. \'93They get in there with the coffee and keep you from being lonely when you drive.\'94 \'93You\'92re not lonely are you?\'94 \'93No, daughter.\'94 \'93We made quite good time didn\'92t we?\'94 \'93Not really good. That\'92s not much of a stretch for time with the bridges and the towns.\'94 \'93Look at the cowpunchers,\'94 she said. Two men on cow ponies, wearing western work clothes, got down from their stock saddles and hitched their horses to the rail in front of the lunch room and walked down the sidewalk on their high-heeled boots. \'93They run a lot of cattle around here,\'94 Roger said. \'93You have to watch for stock on all these roads.\'94 \'93I didn\'92t know they raised many cattle in Florida.\'94 \'93An awful lot. Good cattle now too.\'94 \'93Don\'92t you want to get a paper?\'94 \'93I\'92d like to,\'94 he said. \'93I\'92ll see if the cashier has one.\'94 \'93At the drugstore,\'94 the cashier said. \'93St. Petersburg and Tampa papers at the drugstore.\'94 \'93Where is it?\'94 \'93At the corner. I doubt if you could miss it.\'94 \'93You want anything from the drugstore?\'94 Roger asked the girl. \'93Camels,\'94 she said. \'93Remember we have to fill the ice jug.\'94 \'93I\'92ll ask them.\'94 Roger came back with the morning papers and a carton of cigarettes. \'93It\'92s not going so good.\'94 He handed her one of the papers. \'93Is there anything we didn\'92t get on the radio?\'94 \'93Not much. But it doesn\'92t look so good.\'94 \'93Can they fill the ice jug?\'94 \'93I forgot to ask.\'94 The waitress came with the two breakfasts and they both drank their cold grapefruit juice and started to eat. Roger kept on reading his paper so Helena propped hers against a water glass and read too. \'93Have you any chili sauce?\'94 Roger asked the waitress. She Was a thin juke-joint looking blonde. \'93You bet,\'94 she said. \'93You people from Hollywood.\'94 \'93I\'92ve been there.\'94 \'93Ain\'92t she from there?\'94 \'93She\'92s going there.\'94 \'93Oh Jesus me,\'94 the waitress said. \'93Would you write in my book? \'93I\'92d love to,\'94 Helena said. \'93But I\'92m not in pictures.\'94 \'93You will be, honey,\'94 the waitress said. \'93Wait a minute,\'94 she said, got a pen.\'94 She handed Helena the book. It was quite new and had a grey imitation leather cover. \'93I only just got it,\'94 she said. \'93I only had this job a week.\'94 Helena wrote Helena Hancock on the first page in the rather flamboyant untypical hand that had emerged form the mixed ways of writing she had been taught at various schools. \'93Jesus beat me what a name,\'94 the waitress said. \'93Wouldn\'92t you write something with it?\'94 \'93What\'92s your name?\'94 Helena asked. \'93Marie.\'94 To Marie from her friend Helena wrote above the florid name in the slightly suspect script. \'93Gee thanks,\'94 Marie said. Then to Roger, \'93You don\'92t mind writing do you.\'94 \'93No,\'94 Roger said. \'93I\'92d like to. What\'92s your last name, Marie?\'94 \'93Oh that don\'92t matter.\'94 He wrote Best always to Marie from Roger Hancock. \'93You her father?\'94 the waitress asked. \'93Yes,\'94 said Roger. \'93Gee I\'92m glad she\'92s going out there with her father,\'94 the waitress said. \'93Well I certainly wish you people luck.\'94 \'93We need it,\'94 Roger said. \'93No,\'94 the waitress said. \'93You don\'92t need it. But I wish it to you anyway. Say you must have got married awfully young.\'94 \'93I was,\'94 Roger said. I sure as hell was, he thought. \'93I\'92ll bet her mother was beautiful.\'94 \'93She was the most beautiful girl you ever saw.\'94 \'93Where\'92s she now?\'94 \'93In London,\'94 Helena said. \'93You people certainly lead lives,\'94 the waitress said. \'93Do you want another glass of milk?\'94 \'93No thanks,\'94 Helena said. \'93Where are you from, Marie?\'94 \'93Fort Meade,\'94 the waitress said. \'93It\'92s right up the road.\'94 \'93Do you like it here?\'94 \'93This is a bigger town. It\'92s a step up I guess.\'94 \'93Do you have any fun?\'94 \'93I always have fun when there\'92s any time. Do you want anything more?\'94 she asked Roger. \'93No. We have to roll.\'94 They paid the check and shook hands. \'93Thanks very much for the quarter,\'94 the waitress said. \'93And for writing in my book. I guess I\'92ll be reading about you in the papers. Good luck, Miss Hancock.\'94 \'93Good luck,\'94 Helena said. \'93I hope you have a good summer.\'94 \'93It\'92ll be all right,\'94 the waitress said. \'93You be careful won\'92t you.\'94 \'93You be careful too,\'94 Helena said. \'93O.K.,\'94 Marie said. \'93Only it\'92s kind of late for me.\'94 She bit her lip and turned and went into the kitchen. \'93She was a nice girl,\'94 Helena said to Roger as they got into the car. \'93I should have told her it was sort of late for me too. But I guess that only would have worried her.\'94 \'93We must fill the ice jug,\'94 Roger said. \'93I\'92ll take it in,\'94 Helena offered. \'93I haven\'92t done anything for us all day.\'94 \'93Let me get it.\'94 \'93No. You read the paper and I\'92ll get it. Have we enough Scotch?\'94 \'93There\'92s that whole other bottle in the carton that isn\'92t opened.\'94 \'93That\'92s splendid.\'94 Roger read the paper. I might as well, he thought. I\'92m going to drive all day. \'93It only cost a quarter,\'94 the girl said when she came back with the jug. \'93But it\'92s chipped awfully fine. Too fine I\'92m afraid.\'94 \'93We can get some more this evening.\'94 When they were out of the town and had settled down to the long black highway north through the prairie and the pines, into the hills of the lake country, the road striped black over the long, varied peninsula, heavy with the mounting summer heat now that they were away from the sea breeze; but with them making their own breeze driving at a steady seventy on the straight long stretches and feeling the country being put behind them, the girl said, \'93It\'92s fun to drive fast isn\'92t it? It\'92s like making your own youth.\'94 \'93How do you mean?\'94 \'93I don\'92t know,\'94 she said. \'93Sort of foreshortening and telescoping the world the way youth does.\'94 \'93I never thought much about youth.\'94 \'93I know it,\'94 she said. \'93But I did. You didn\'92t think about it because you never lost it. If you never thought about it you couldn\'92t lose it.\'94 \'93Go on,\'94 he said. \'93That doesn\'92t follow.\'94 \'93It doesn\'92t make good sense,\'94 she said. \'93I\'92ll get it straightened out though and then it will. You don\'92t mind me talking when it doesn\'92t make completely good sense do you?\'94 \'93No, daughter.\'94 \'93You see if I made really completely good sense I wouldn\'92t be here.\'94 She stopped. \'93Yes I would. It\'92s super good sense. Not common sense.\'94 \'93Like surrealism?\'94 \'93Nothing like surrealism. I hate surrealism.\'94 \'93I don\'92t,\'94 he said. \'93I liked it when it started. It kept on such a long time after it was over was the trouble.\'94 \'93But things are never really successful until they are over.\'94 \'93Say that again.\'94 \'93I mean they aren\'92t successful in America until they are over. And they have to have been over for years and years before they are successful in London.\'94 \'93Where did you learn all this, daughter?\'94 \'93I thought it out,\'94 she said. \'93I\'92ve had a lot of time to think while I was waiting around for you.\'94 \'93You didn\'92t wait so very much.\'94 \'93Oh yes I did. You\'92ll never know.\'94 There was a choice to be made soon of two main highways with very little difference in their mileage and he did not know whether to take the one that he knew was a good road through pleasant country but that he had driven many times with Andy and David\'92s mother or the newly finished highway that might go through duller country. That\'92s no choice, he thought. We\'92ll take the new one. The hell with maybe starting something again like I had the other night coming across the Tamiami Trail. They caught the news broadcast on the radio, switching it off through the soap operas of the forenoon and on at each hour. \'93It isn\'92t like fiddling while Rome burns,\'94 Roger said. \'93It\'92s driving west northwest at seventy miles an hour away from a fire that\'92s burning up what you care about to the east and hearing about it while you drive away from it.\'94 \'93If we keep on driving long enough we\'92ll get to it.\'94 \'93We hit a lot of water first.\'94 \'93Roger. Do you have to go? If you have to go you should.\'94 \'93No dammit. I don\'92t have to go. Not yet. I figured that through yesterday morning while you were asleep.\'94 \'93Didn\'92t I sleep though? It was shameful.\'94 \'93I\'92m awfully glad you did. Do you think you got enough last night? It was awfully early when I woke you.\'94 \'93I had a wonderful sleep. Roger?\'94 \'93What, daughter?\'94 \'93We were mean to lie to that waitress.\'94 \'93She asked questions,\'94 Roger said. \'93It was simpler that way.\'94 \'93Could you have been my father?\'94 \'93If I\'92d begot you at fourteen.\'94 \'93I\'92m glad you\'92re not,\'94 she said. \'93God it would be complicated. It\'92s complicated enough I suppose until I simplify it. Do you think I\'92ll bore you because I\'92m twenty-two and sleep all night long and am hungry all the time?\'94 \'93And are the most beautiful girl I\'92ve ever seen and wonderful and strange as hell in bed and always fun to talk to.\'94 \'93All right. Stop. Why am I strange in bed?\'94 \'93You are.\'94 \'93I said why?\'94 \'93I\'92m not an anatomist,\'94 he said. \'93I\'92m just the guy that loves you.\'94 \'93Don\'92t you like to talk about it?\'94 \'93No. Do you?\'94 \'93No. I\'92m shy about it and very frightened. Always frightened.\'94 \'93My old Bratchen. We were lucky weren\'92t we?\'94 \'93Let\'92s not even talk about how lucky. Do you think Andy and Dave and Tom would mind?\'94 \'93No.\'94 \'93We ought to write to Tom.\'94 \'93We will.\'94 \'93What do you suppose he\'92s doing now?\'94 Roger looked through the wheel at the clock on the dashboard \'93He will have finished painting and be having a drink.\'94 \'93Why don\'92t we have one?\'94 \'93Fine.\'94 She made the drinks in the cups putting in handfuls of the finely chipped ice, the whisky and White Rock. The new highway was wide now and ran far and clear ahead through the forest of pines that were tapped and scored for turpentine. \'93It doesn\'92t look like the Landes does it,\'94 Roger said and lifting the cup felt the drink icy in his mouth. It was very good but the chipped ice melted fast. \'93No. In the Landes there is yellow gorse in between the pines.\'94 \'93And they don\'92t work the trees for turpentine with chain gangs either,\'94 Roger said. \'93This is all convict labor country through here.\'94 \'93Tell me how they work it.\'94 \'93It\'92s pretty damned awful,\'94 he said. \'93The state contracts them out to the turpentine and lumber camps. They used to catch everyone off the trains during the worst of the Depression. All the people riding the trains looking for work. Going east or west or south. They\'92d stop the trains right outside of Tallahassee and round up the men and march them off to jail and then sentence them to chain gangs and contract them out to the turpentine and lumber outfits. This is a wicked stretch of country. It\'92s old and wicked with lots of law and no justice.\'94 \'93Pine country can be so friendly too.\'94 \'93This isn\'92t friendly. This is a bastard. There are lots of lawless people in it but the work is done by the prisoners. It\'92s a slave country. The law\'92s only for outsiders.\'94 \'93I\'92m glad we\'92re going through it fast.\'94 \'93Yes. But we really ought to know it. How it\'92s run. How it works. Who are the crooks and the tyrants and how to get rid of them.\'94 \'93I\'92d love to do that.\'94 \'93You ought to buck Florida politics some time and see what happens.\'94 \'93Is it really bad?\'94 \'93You couldn\'92t believe it.\'94 \'93Do you know much about it?\'94 \'93A little,\'94 he said. \'93I bucked it for a while with some good people but we didn\'92t get anywhere. We got the Bejesus beat out of us. On conversation.\'94 \'93Wouldn\'92t you like to be in politics?\'94 \'93No. I want to be a writer.\'94 \'93That\'92s what I want you to be.\'94 The road was unrolling now through some scattered hardwood and then across cypress swamps and hammock country and then ahead there was an iron bridge across a clear, dark-watered stream, beautiful and clear moving, with live oaks along its bank and a sign at the bridge that said it was the Senwannee (sic) River. They were on it and over it and up the bank beyond and the road had turned north. \'93It was like a river in a dream,\'94 Helena said. \'93Wasn\'92t it wonderful so clear and so dark? Couldn\'92t we go down it in a canoe some time?\'94 \'93I\'92ve crossed it up above and it\'92s beautiful wherever you cross it.\'94 \'93Can\'92t we make a trip on it sometime?\'94 \'93Sure. There\'92s a place way up above where I\'92ve seen it as clear as a trout stream.\'94 \'93Wouldn\'92t there be snakes?\'94 \'93I\'92m pretty sure there\'92d be a lot.\'94 \'93I\'92m afraid of them. Really afraid of them. But we could be careful couldn\'92t we?\'94 \'93Sure. We ought to do it in the winter time.\'94 \'93There are such wonderful places for us to go,\'94 she said. \'93I\'92ll always remember this river now and we saw it only like the lens clicking in a camera. We should have stopped.\'94 \'93Do you want to go back?\'94 \'93Not until we come to it going the other way. I want to go on and on and on.\'94 \'93We\'92re either going to have to stop to get something to eat or else get sandwiches and eat them while we drive.\'94 \'93Let\'92s have another drink,\'94 she said. \'93And then get some sandwiches. What kind do you think they\'92ll have?\'94 \'93They ought to have hamburgers and maybe barbecue.\'94 The second drink was like the first, icy cold but quick melting in the wind and Helena held the cup out of the rush of the air and handed it to him when he drank. \'93Daughter, are you drinking more than you usually do?\'94 \'93Of course. You didn\'92t think I drank a couple of cups of whisky and water every noon by myself before lunch did you?\'94 \'93I don\'92t want you to drink more than you should.\'94 \'93I won\'92t. But it\'92s fun. If I don\'92t want one I won\'92t take one. I never knew about driving across the country and having our drinks on the way.\'94 \'93We could have fun stopping and poking around. Going down to the coast and seeing the old places. But I want us to get out west.\'94 \'93So do I. I\'92ve never seen it. We can always come back.\'94 \'93It\'92s such a long way. But this is so much more fun than flying.\'94 \'93This is flying. Roger, will it be wonderful out west?\'94 \'93It always is to me.\'94 \'93Isn\'92t it lucky I\'92ve never been out so we\'92ll have it together?\'94 \'93We\'92ve got a lot of country to get through first.\'94 \'93It\'92s going to be fun though. Do you think we\'92ll come to the sandwich town pretty soon?\'94 \'93We\'92ll take the next town.\'94 The next town was a lumbering town with one long street of frame and brick buildings along the highway. The mills were by the railroad and lumber was piled high along the tracks and there was the smell of cypress and pine sawdust in the heat. While Roger filled the gas and had the water, oil and air checked Helena ordered hamburger sandwiches and barbecued pork sandwiches with hot sauce on them in a lunch counter and brought them to the car in a brown paper bag. She had beer in another paper sack. Back on the highway again, and out of the heat of the town, they ate the sandwiches and drank cold beer that the girl opened. \'93I couldn\'92t get any of our marriage beer,\'94 she said. \'93This was the only kind there was.\'94 \'93It\'92s good and cold. Wonderful after the barbecue.\'94 \'93The man said it was about like Regal. He said I\'92d never be able to tell it from Regal.\'94 \'93It\'92s better than Regal.\'94 \'93It had a funny name. It wasn\'92t a German name either. But the labels soaked off.\'94 \'93It\'92ll be on the caps.\'94 \'93I threw the caps away.\'94 \'93Wait till we get out west. They have better beer the further out you get.\'94 \'93I don\'92t think they could have any better sandwich buns or any better barbecue. Aren\'92t these good?\'94 \'93They\'92re awfully good. This isn\'92t a part of the country where you eat very good either.\'94 \'93Roger, will you mind terribly if I go to sleep for a little while after lunch? I won\'92t if you\'92re sleepy.\'94 \'93I\'92d love it if you went to sleep. I\'92m not sleepy at all really. I\'92d tell you if I was.\'94 \'93There\'92s another bottle of beer for you. Dammit I forgot to look at the cap.\'94 \'93That\'92s good. I like to drink it unknown.\'94 \'93But we could have remembered it for another time.\'94 \'93We\'92ll get another new one.\'94 \'93Roger, would you really not mind if I went to sleep?\'94 \'93No, beauty.\'94 \'93I can stay awake if you want.\'94 \'93Please sleep and you\'92ll wake up lonely and we can talk.\'94 \'93Good night, my dear Roger. Thank you very much for the trip and the two drinks and the sandwiches and the unknown beer and the way down upon the Swanee River and for where we are going.\'94 \'93You go to sleep, my baby.\'94 \'93I will. You wake me up if you want me.\'94 She slept curled up in the deep seat and Roger drove, watching the wide road ahead for stock, making fast time through the pine country, trying to keep around seventy to try to see how much he could get over sixty miles onto the speedometer in each hour. He had never been on this stretch of highway but he knew this part of the state and he was driving it now only to put it behind him. You shouldn\'92t have to waste country but on a long trip you have to. The monotony tires you, he thought. That and the fact there are no vistas. This would be a fine country on foot in cool weather but it is monotonous to drive through now. I have not been driving long enough to settle into it yet. But I should have more resiliency than I have. I\'92m not sleepy. My eyes are bored I guess as well as tired. I am not bored, he thought. It is just my eyes and the fact that it is a long time since I have been sitting still so long. It is another game and I\'92ll have to relearn it. About day after tomorrow we will start to make real distance and not be tired by it. I haven\'92t sat still this long for a long time. He reached forward and turned on the radio and tuned it. Helenadid not wake so he left it on and let it blur in with his thinking and his driving. It is awfully nice having her in the car asleep, he thought. She is good company even when she is asleep. You are a strange and lucky bastard, he thought. You are having much better luck than you deserve. You just thought you had learned something about being alone and you really worked at it and you did learn something. You got right to the edge of something. Then you backslid and ran with those worthless people, not quite as worthless as the other batch, but worthless enough and to spare. Probably they were even more worthless. You certainly were worthless with them. Then you got through that and got in fine shape with Tom and the kids and you knew you couldn\'92t be happier and that there was nothing coming up except to be lonely again and then along comes this girl and you go right into happiness as though it were a country you were the biggest landowner in. Happiness is prewar Hungary and you are Count K\'e1rolyi. Maybe not the biggest landowner but raised the most pheasant anyway. I wonder if she will like to shoot pheasant. Maybe she will. I can still shoot them. They don\'92t bother me. I never asked her if she could shoot. Her mother shot quite well in that wonderful dope-head trance she had. She wasn\'92t a wicked woman at the start. She was a very nice woman, pleasant and kind and successful in bed and I think she meant all the things she said to all the people. I really think she meant them. That is probably what made it so dangerous. It always sounded as though she meant them anyway. I suppose, though, it finally becomes a social defect to be unable to believe any marriage has not really been consummated until the husband has committed suicide. Things all ended so violently that started so pleasantly. But I suppose that is always the way with drugs. Though I suppose among those spiders who eat their mates some of the mate eaters are remarkably attractive. My dear she has never, really never, looked better. Dear Henry was just a bonne bouche. Henry was nice too. You know how much we all liked him. None of those spiders take drugs either, he thought. Of course that\'92s what I should remember about this child, exactly as you should remember the stalling speed of a plane, that her mother was her mother. That\'92s all very simple, he thought. But you know your own mother was a bitch. But you also know you are a bastard in quite different ways from her ways. So why should her stalling speed be the same as her mother\'92s? Yours isn\'92t. No one had ever said it was. Hers I mean. What you said was that you should remember her mother as you would remember and so forth. That\'92s dirty too, he thought. For nothing, for no reason, when you need it most you have this girl, freely and of her own will, lovely, loving and full of illusions about you, and with her asleep beside you on the seat you start destroying her and denying her without any formalities of cocks crowing, twice nor thrice nor even on the radio. You are a bastard, he thought and looked down at the girl asleep on the seat by him. I suppose you start to destroy it for fear you will lose it, or that it will take too great a hold on you, or in case it shouldn\'92t be true, but it is not very good to do. I would like to see you have something besides your kids you did not destroy sometime. This girl\'92s mother was and is a bitch and your mother was a bitch. That ought to bring you closer to her and make you understand her. That doesn\'92t mean she has to be a bitch any more than you have to be a heel. She thinks you are a much better guy than you are and maybe that will make you a better guy than you are. You\'92ve been good for a long time now and maybe you can be good. As far as I know you haven\'92t done anything cruel since that night on the dock with that citizen with the wife and the dog. You haven\'92t been drunk. You haven\'92t been wicked. It\'92s a shame you\'92re not still in the church because you could make such a good confession. She sees you the way you are now and you are a good guy as of the last few weeks and she probably thinks that is the way you have been all the time and that people just maligned you. You really can start it all over now. You really can. Please don\'92t be silly, another part of him said. You really can, he said to himself. You can be just as good a guy as she thinks you are and as you are at this moment. There is such a thing as starting it all over and you\'92ve been given a chance to and you can do it and you will do it. Will you make all the promises again? Yes. If necessary I will make all the promises and I will keep them. Not all the promises? Knowing you have broken them? He could not say anything to that. You mustn\'92t be a crook before you start . No. I mustn\'92t. Say what you can truly do each day and then do it. Each day. Do it a day at a time and keep each day\'92s promises to her and to yourself. That way I can start it all new, he thought, and still be straight. You\'92re getting to be an awful moralist, he thought. If you don\'92t watch out you will bore her. When weren\'92t you always a moralist? At different times. Don\'92t fool yourself. Well, at different places then. Don\'92t fool yourself. All right, Conscience, he said. Only don\'92t be so solemn and didactic. Get a load of this, Conscience old friend, I know how useful and important you are and how you could have kept me out of all the trouble I have been in but couldn\'92t you have a little lighter touch about it? I know that conscience speaks in italics but sometimes you seem to speak in very boldfaced Gothic script. I would take it just as well from you, Conscience, if you did not try to scare me; just as I would consider the Ten Commandments just as seriously if they were not presented as graven on stone tablets. You know. Conscience, it has been a long time since we were frightened by the thunder. Now with the lightning: There you have something. But the thunder doesn\'92t impress us so much any more. I\'92m trying to help you, you son of a bitch, his conscience said. The girl was still sleeping and they were coming up the hill into Tallahassee. She will probably wake when we stop at the first light, he thought. But she did not and he drove through the old town and turned off to the left on U.S. 319 straight south and into the beautiful wooded country that ran down toward the Gulf Coast. There\'92s one thing about you, daughter, he thought. Not only can you outsleep anybody I\'92ve ever known and have the best appetite I\'92ve ever seen linked with a build like yours but you have an absolutely heaven-given ability to not have to go to the bathroom. Their room was on the fourteenth floor and it was not very cool. But with the fans on and the windows open it was better and when the bellboy had gone out Helena said, \'93Don\'92t be disappointed, darling. Please. It\'92s lovely.\'94 \'93I thought I could get you an air-conditioned one.\'94 \'93They\'92re awful to sleep in really. Like being in a vault. This will be fine.\'94 \'93We could have tried the other two. But they know me there.\'94 \'93They\'92ll know us both here now. What\'92s our name?\'94 \'93Mr. and Mrs. Robert Harris.\'94 \'93That\'92s a splendid name. We must try to live up to it. Do you want to bathe first?\'94 \'93No. You.\'94 \'93All right. I\'92m going to really bathe though.\'94 \'93Go ahead. Go to sleep in the tub if you want.\'94 \'93I may. I didn\'92t sleep all day did I?\'94 \'93You were wonderful. There was some pretty dull going too.\'94 \'93It wasn\'92t bad. Lots of it was lovely. But New Orleans isn\'92t really the way I thought it would be. Did you always know it was so flat and dull? I don\'92t know what I expected. Marseilles I suppose. And to see the river.\'94 \'93It\'92s only to eat and drink in. The part right around here doesn\'92t look so bad at night. It\'92s really sort of nice.\'94 \'93Let\'92s not go out until it\'92s dark. It\'92s all right around here. Some of it is lovely.\'94 \'93We\'92ll have that and then, in the morning, we\'92ll be on our way.\'94 \'93That only leaves time for one meal.\'94 \'93That\'92s all right. We\'92ll come back in cold weather when we can really eat. Darling,\'94 she said. \'93This is the first sort of letdown we\'92ve had. So let\'92s not let it let us down. We\'92ll have long baths and some drinks and a meal twice as expensive as we can afford and we\'92ll go to bed and make wonderful love.\'94 \'93The hell with New Orleans in the movies,\'94 Roger said. \'93We\'92ll have New Orleans in bed.\'94 \'93Eat first. Didn\'92t you order some White Rock and ice?\'94 \'93Yes. Do you want a drink?\'94 \'93No. I was just worried about you.\'94 \'93It will be along,\'94 Roger said. There was a knock at the door. \'93Here it is. You get started on the tub.\'94 \'93It\'92s going to be wonderful,\'94 she said. \'93There will just be my nose out of water and the tips of my breasts maybe and my toes and I\'92m going to have it just as cold as it will run.\'94 The bellboy brought the pitcher of ice, the bottled water and the papers, took his tip and went out. Roger made a drink and settled down to read. He was tired and it felt good to lie back on the bed with two pillows folded under his neck and read the evening and the morning papers. Things were not so good in Spain but it had not really taken shape yet. He read all the Spanish news carefully in the three papers and then read the other cable news and then the local news. \'93Are you all right, darling?\'94 Helena called from the bathroom. \'93I\'92m wonderful.\'94 \'93Have you undressed?\'94 \'93Yes.\'94 \'93Do you have anything on?\'94 \'93No.\'94 \'93Are you very brown?\'94 \'93Still.\'94 \'93Do you know where we swam this morning was the loveliest beach I\'92ve ever seen.\'94 \'93I wonder how it can get so white and so floury.\'94 \'93Darling are you very, very brown?\'94 \'93Why?\'94 \'93I was just thinking about you.\'94 \'93Being in cold water\'92s supposed to be good for that.\'92 \'93I\'92m brown under the water. You\'92d like it.\'94 \'93I like it.\'94 \'93You keep on reading,\'94 she said. \'93You are reading aren\'92t you?\'94 \'93Yes.\'94 \'93Is Spain all right?\'94 \'93No.\'94 \'93I\'92m so sorry. Is it very bad?\'94 \'93No. Not yet. Really.\'94 \'93Roger?\'94 \'93Yes.\'94 \'93Do you love me?\'94 \'93Yes, daughter.\'94 \'93You go back and read now. I\'92ll think about that here underwater.\'94 Roger lay back and listened to the noises that came up from the street below and read the papers and drank his drink. This was almost the best hour of the day. It was the hour he had always gone to the caf\'e9 alone when he had lived in Paris, to read the evening papers and have his aperitif. This town was nothing like Paris nor was it like Orleans either. Orleans wasn\'92t much of a town either. It was pleasant enough though. Probably a better town to live in than this one. He didn\'92t know the environs of this town though and he knew he was stupid about it. He had always liked New Orleans, the little that he knew of it, but it was a letdown to anyone who expected very much. And this certainly was not the month to hit it in. The best time he had ever hit it was with Andy one time in the winter and another time driving through with David. The time going north with Andy they had not come through New Orleans. They had bypassed it to the north to save time and driven north of Lake Pontchartrain and across through Hammond to Baton Rouge on a new road that was being built so they made many detours and then they had gone north through Mississippi in the southern edge of the blizzard that was coming down from the north. When they had hit New Orleans was coming south again. But it was still cold and they had a wonderful time eating and drinking and the city had seemed gay and sharp with cold, instead of moist and damp and Andy had roamed all the antique shops and bought a sword with his Christmas money. He kept the sword in the luggage compartment behind the seat in the car and slept with it in his bed at night. When he and David had come through it had been in the winter and they had made their headquarters in that restaurant he would have to try to find, the non-tourist one. He remembered it as in a cellar and having teakwood tables and chairs or else they sat on benches. It was probably not like that and was like a dream and he did not remember its name nor where it was located except he thought it was in the opposite direction from Antoine\'92s, on an east and west, not a north and south street, and he and David had stayed in there two days. He probably had it mixed up with some other place. There was a place in Lyons and another near the Parc Monceau that always were merged in his dreams. That was one of the things about being drunk when you were young. You made places in your mind that afterwards you could never find and they were better than any places could ever be. He knew he hadn\'92t been to this place with Andy though. \'93I\'92m coming out,\'94 she said. \'93Feel how cool,\'94 she said on the bed. \'93Feel how cool all the way down. No don\'92t go away. I like you.\'94 \'93No. Let me take a shower.\'94 \'93If you want. But I\'92d rather not. You don\'92t wash the pickled onions do you before you put them in the cocktail? You don\'92t wash the vermouth do you?\'94 \'93I wash the glass and the ice.\'94 \'93It\'92s different. You\'92re not the glass and the ice. Roger, please do that again. Isn\'92t again a nice word?\'94 \'93Again and again,\'94 he said. So tly he felt the lovely curve from her hip bone up under her ribs and the apple slope of her breasts. \'93I it a good curve?\'94 He kissed her breasts and she said, \'93Be awfully careful when they\'92re so cold. Be very careful and kind. Do you know about them aching?\'94 \'93Yes,\'94 he said. \'93I know about aching.\'94 Then she said, \'93The other one is jealous.\'94 Later she said, \'93They didn\'92t plan things right for me to have two breasts and you only one way to kiss. They made everything so far apart.\'94 His hand covered the other, the pressure between the fingers barely touching and then his lips wandered up over all the lovely coolness and met hers. They met and brushed very lightly, sweeping from side to side, losing nothing of the lovely outer screen and then he kissed her. \'93Oh darling,\'94 she said. \'93Oh please darling. My dearest kind lovely love. Oh please, please, please my dear love.\'94 After quite a long time she said, \'93I\'92m so sorry if I was selfish about your bath. But when I came out of mine I was selfish.\'94 \'93You weren\'92t selfish.\'94 \'93Roger, do you still love me?\'94 \'93Yes, daughter.\'94 \'93Do you change how you feel afterwards?\'94 \'93No,\'94 he lied. \'93I don\'92t at all. I just feel better afterwards. I mustn\'92t tell you.\'94 \'93You tell me.\'94 \'93No. I won\'92t tell you too much. But we do have a lovely time don\'92t we?\'94 \'93Yes,\'94 he said very truthfully. \'93After we bathe we can go out.\'94 \'93I\'92ll go now.\'94 \'93You know maybe we ought to stay tomorrow. I ought to have my nails done and my hair washed. I can do it all myself but you might like it better done properly. That way we could sleep late and then have part of one day in town and then leave the next morning.\'94 \'93That would be good.\'94 \'93I like New Orleans now. Don\'92t you?\'94 \'93New Orleans is wonderful. It\'92s changed a lot since we came here.\'94 \'93I\'92ll go in. I\'92ll only be a minute. Then you can bathe.\'94 \'93I only want a shower.\'94 Afterwards they went down in the elevator. There were Negro girls who ran the elevators and they were pretty. The elevator was full with a party from the floor above so they went down fast. Going down in the elevator made him feel hollower than ever inside. He felt Helena against him where they were crowded. \'93If you ever get so that you don\'92t feel anything when you see flying fish go out of water or when an elevator drops you better turn in your suit,\'94 he said to her. \'93I feel it still,\'94 she said. \'93Are those the only things you have to turn in your suit for?\'94 The door had opened and they were crossing the old-fashioned marble lobby crowded at this hour with people waiting for other people, people waiting to go to dinner, people just waiting, and Roger said, \'93Walk ahead and let me see you.\'94 \'93Where do I walk to?\'94 \'93Straight toward the door of the air-conditioned bar.\'94 He caught her at the door. \'93You\'92re beautiful. You walk wonderfully and if I were here and saw you now for the first time I\'92d be in love with you.\'94 \'93If I saw you across the room I\'92d be in love with you.\'94 \'93If I saw you for the first time everything would turn over inside of me and I\'92d ache right through my chest.\'94 \'93That\'92s the way I feel all of the time.\'94 \'93You can\'92t feel that way all of the time.\'94 \'93Maybe not. But I can feel that way an awfully big part of the time.\'94 \'93Daughter, isn\'92t New Orleans a fine place?\'94 \'93Weren\'92t we lucky to come here?\'94 It felt very cold in the big high-ceilinged, pleasant, dark-wood panelled bar room and Helena, sitting beside Roger at a table, said, \'93Look,\'94 and showed him the tiny prickles of gooseflesh on her brown arm. \'93You can do that to me too,\'94 she said. \'93But this time it\'92s air conditioning.\'94 \'93It\'92s really cold. It feels wonderful.\'94 \'93What should we drink?\'94 \'93Should we get tight?\'94 \'93Let\'92s gel a little tight.\'94 \'93I\'92ll drink absinthe then.\'94 \'93Do you think I should?\'94 \'93Why don\'92t you try it. Didn\'92t you ever?\'94 \'93No. I was saving it to drink with you.\'94 \'93Don\'92t make up things.\'94 \'93It\'92s not made up. I truly did.\'94 \'93Daughter, don\'92t make up a lot of things.\'94 \'93It\'92s not made up. I didn\'92t save my maidenly state because I thought it would bore you and besides I gave you up for a while. But I did save absinthe. Truly.\'94 \'93Do you have any real absinthe?\'94 Roger asked the bar waiter. \'93It\'92s not supposed to be,\'94 the waiter said. \'93But I have some.\'94 \'93The real Couvet Pontarlier sixty-eighth-degree? Not the Tarragova?\'94 \'93Yes, sir,\'94 the waiter said. \'93I can\'92t bring you the bottle. It will be in an ordinary Pernod bottle.\'94 \'93I can tell it,\'94 Roger said. \'93I believe you, sir,\'94 the waiter said. \'93Do you want a frappe or drip?\'94 \'93Straight drip. You have the dripping saucers?\'94 \'93Naturally, sir.\'94 \'93Without sugar.\'94 \'93Won\'92t the lady want sugar, sir?\'94 \'93No. We\'92ll let her try it without.\'94 \'93Very good, sir.\'94 er the waiter was gone Roger took Helena\'92s hand under the table. \'93Hello my beauty.\'94 \'93This is wonderful. Us here and this good old poison coming and we\'92ll eat in some fine place.\'94 \'93And then go to bed\'94 \'93Do you like bed as much as all that?\'94 \'93I never did. But I do now.\'92 \'93Why did you never?\'94 \'93Let\'92s not talk about it.\'94 \'93We won\'92t.\'94 \'93I don\'92t ask you about everyone you\'92ve been in love with. We don\'92t have to talk about London do we?\'94 \'93No. We can talk about you and how beautiful you are. You know you still move like a colt?\'94 \'93Roger, tell me, did I really walk so it pleased you?\'94 \'93You walk so that it breaks my heart.\'94 \'93All I do is keep my shoulders back and my head straight up and walk. I know there are tricks I ought to know.\'94 \'93When you look the way you do, daughter, there aren\'92t any tricks. You\'92re so beautiful that I\'92d be happy just to look at you.\'94 \'93Not permanently I hope.\'94 \'93Daytimes,\'94 he said. \'93Look, daughter. The one thing about absinthe is that you have to drink it awfully slowly. It won\'92t taste strong mixed with the water but you have to believe it is.\'94 \'93I believe. Credo Roger.\'94 \'93I hope you\'92ll never change it the way Lady Caroline did.\'94 \'93I\'92ll never change it except for cause. But you\'92re not like him at all.\'94 \'93I wouldn\'92t want to be.\'94 \'93You\'92re not. Someone tried to tell me you were at college. They meant it as a compliment I think but I was terribly angry and made an awful row with the English professor. They made us read you you know. I mean they made the others read it. I\'92d read it all. There isn\'92t very much, Roger. Don\'92t you think you ought to work more?\'94 \'93I\'92m going to work now as soon as we get out west.\'94 \'93Maybe we shouldn\'92t stay tomorrow then. I\'92ll be so happy when you work.\'94 \'93Happier than now?\'94 \'93Yes,\'94 she said. \'93Happier than now.\'94 \'93I\'92ll work hard. You\'92ll see.\'94 \'93Roger, do you think I\'92m bad for you? Do I make you drink or make love more than you should?\'94 \'93No, daughter.\'94 \'93I\'92m awfully glad if it\'92s true because I want to be good for you. I know it\'92s a weakness and silliness but I make up stories to myself in the daytime and in one of them I save your life. Sometimes it\'92s from drowning and sometimes from in from of a train and sometimes in a plane and sometimes in the mountains. You can laugh if you want. And then there is one where I come into your life when you are disgusted and disappointed with all women and you love me so much and I take such good care of you that you get an epoch of writing wonderfully. That\'92s a wonderful one. I was making it up again today in the car.\'94 \'93That\'92s one I\'92m pretty sure I\'92ve seen in the movies or read somewhere.\'94 \'93Oh I know. I\'92ve seen it there too. And I\'92m sure I\'92ve read it too. But don\'92t you think it happens? Don\'92t you think I could be good for you? Not in a wishy-washy way or by giving you a little baby but really good for you so you\'92d write better than you ever wrote and be happy at the same time?\'94 \'93They do it in pictures. Why shouldn\'92t we do it?\'94 The absinthe had come and from the saucers of cracked ice placed over the top of the glasses water, that Roger added from a small pitcher, was dripping down into the clear yellowish liquor turning it to an opalescent milkiness. \'93Try that,\'94 Roger said when it was the right cloudy color. \'93It\'92s very strange,\'94 the girl said. \'93And warming in the stomach. It tastes like medicine.\'94 \'93It is medicine. Pretty strong medicine.\'94 \'93I don\'92t really need medicine yet,\'94 the girl said. \'93But this is awfully good. When will we be tight?\'94 \'93Almost any time. I\'92m going to have three. You take what you want. But take them slow.\'94 \'93I\'92ll see how I do. I don\'92t know anything about it yet except that it\'92s like medicine. Roger?\'94 \'93Yes, daughter.\'94 He was feeling the warmth of the alchemist\'92s furnace starting at the pit of his stomach. \'93Roger, don\'92t you think I really could be good for you the way I was in the story I made up?\'94 \'93I think we could be good to each other and for each other. But I don\'92t like it to be on a basis of stories. I think the story business is bad.\'94 \'93But you see that\'92s the way I am. I\'92m a story-maker-upper and I\'92m romantic I know. But that\'92s how I am. If I was practical I\'92d never have come to Bimini.\'94 I don\'92t know, Roger thought to himself. If that was what you wanted to do that was quite practical. You didn\'92t just make up a story about it. And the other part of him thought: You must be slipping you bastard if the absinthe can bring the heel in you out that quickly. But what he said was, \'93I don\'92t know, daughter. I think the story business is dangerous. First you could make up stories about something innocuous, like me, and then there could be all sorts of other stories. There might be bad ones.\'94 \'93You\'92re not so innocuous.\'94 \'93Oh yes I am. Or the stories are anyway. Saving me is fairly innocuous. But first you might be saving me and then next you might be saving the world. Then you might start saving yourself.\'94 \'93I\'92d like to save the world. I always wished I could. That\'92s awfully big to make a story about. But I want to save you first.\'94 \'93I\'92m getting scared,\'94 Roger said. He drank some more of the absinthe and he felt better but he was worried. \'93Have you always made up the stories?\'94 \'93Since I can remember. I\'92ve made them up about you for twelve years. I didn\'92t tell you all the ones. There are hundreds of them.\'94 \'93Why don\'92t you write instead of making up the stories?\'94 \'93I do write. But it\'92s not as much fun as making up the stories and it\'92s much harder. Then they\'92re not nearly as good. The ones I make up are wonderful.\'94 \'93But you\'92re always the heroine in the stories you write?\'94 \'93No. It\'92s not that simple.\'94 \'93Well let\'92s not worry about it now.\'94 He took another sip of the absinthe and rolled it under his tongue. \'93I never worried about it at all,\'94 the girl said. \'93What I wanted, always, was you and now I\'92m with you. Now I want you to be a great writer.\'94 \'93Maybe we\'92d better not even stop for dinner,\'94 he said. He was still very worried and the absinthe warmth had moved up to his head now and he did not trust it there. He said to himself. What did you think could happen that would not have consequences? What woman in the world did you think could be as sound as a good secondhand Buick car? You\'92ve only known two sound women in your life and you lost them both. What will she want after that? And the other part of his brain said, Hail heel. The absinthe certainly brought you out early tonight. So he said, \'93Daughter, for now, let\'92s just try to be good to each other and love each other\'94 (he got the word out though the absinthe made it a difficult word for him to articulate) \'93and as soon as we get out where we are going I will work just as hard and as well as I can.\'94 \'93That\'92s lovely,\'94 she said. \'93And you don\'92t mind my telling you I made up stories?\'94 \'93No,\'94 he lied. \'93They were very nice stories.\'94 Which was true. \'93Can I have another?\'94 she asked. \'93Sure.\'94 He wished now they had never taken it although it was the drink he loved best of almost any in the world. But almost everything bad that had ever happened to him had happened when he was drinking absinthe; those bad things which were his own fault. He could tell that she knew something was wrong and he pulled hard against himself so that there would be nothing wrong. \'93I didn\'92t say something I shouldn\'92t did I?\'94 \'93No, daughter. Here\'92s to you.\'94 \'93Here\'92s to us.\'94 The second one always tastes better than the first because certain taste buds are numbed against the bitterness of the wormwood so that without becoming sweet, or even sweeter, it becomes less bitter and there are parts of the tongue that enjoy it more. \'93It is strange and wonderful. But all it does so far is just bring us to the edge of misunderstanding,\'94 the girl said. \'93I know,\'94 he said. \'93Let\'92s stick together through it.\'94 \'93Was it that you thought I was ambitious?\'94 \'93It\'92s all right about the stories.\'94 \'93No. It\'92s not all right with you. I couldn\'92t love you as much as I do and not know when you\'92re upset.\'94 \'93I\'92m not upset,\'94 he lied. \'93And I\'92m not going to be upset,\'94 he resolved. \'93Let\'92s talk about something else.\'94 \'93It will be wonderful when we\'92re out there and you can work.\'94 She is a little obtuse, he thought. Or maybe does it affect her that way? But he said, \'93It will be. But you won\'92t be bored?\'94 \'93Of course not.\'94 \'93I work awfully hard when I work.\'94 \'93I\'92ll work too.\'94 \'93That will be fun,\'94 he said. \'93Like Mr. and Mrs. Browning. I never saw the play.\'94 \'93Roger, do you have to make fun of it?\'94 \'93I don\'92t know.\'94 Now pull yourself together, he said to himself. Now is the time to pull yourself together. Be good now. \'93I make fun of everything,\'92 he said \'93I think it will be fine. And it\'92s much better for you to be working when \'92m writing.\'94 \'93Will you mind reading mine sometimes?\'94 \'93No. I\'92ll love to.\'94 \'91Really?\'94 \'93No. Of course. I\'92ll be really happy to. Really.\'94 \'91When you drink this it makes you feel as though you could do anything,\'94 the girl said. \'93I\'92m awfully glad I never drank it before. Do you mind if we talk about writing, Roger?\'94 \'93Hell no.\'94 \'93Why did you say \'91Hell no\'92?\'94 \'91I don\'92t know,\'94 he said. \'93Let\'92s talk about writing. Really I mean it. What about writing?\'94 \'93Now you\'92ve made me feel like a fool. You don\'92t have to take me in as an equal or a partner. I only meant I\'92d like to talk about it if you\'92d like to.\'94 \'93Let\'92s talk about it. What about it?\'94 The girl began to cry, sitting straight up and looking at him. She did not sob nor turn her head away. She just looked at him and tears came down her cheeks and her mouth grew fuller but it did not twist nor break. \'93Please, daughter,\'94 he said. \'93Please. Let\'92s talk about it or anything else and I\'92ll be friendly.\'94 She bit her lip and then said, \'93I suppose I wanted to be partners even though I said I didn\'92t.\'94 I guess that was part of the dream and why the hell shouldn\'92t it be? Roger thought. What do you have to hurt her for you bastard? Be good now fast before you hurt her. \'93You see I\'92d like to have you not just like me in bed but like me in the head and like to talk about things that interest us both.\'94 \'93We will,\'94 he said. \'93We will now. Bratchen daughter, what about writing, my dear beauty?\'94 \'93What I wanted to tell you was that drinking this made me feel the way I feel when I am going to write. That I could do anything and that I can write wonderfully. Then I write and it\'92s just dull. The truer I try to make it the duller it is. And when it isn\'92t true it\'92s silly.\'94 \'93Give me a kiss.\'94 \'93Here?\'94 \'93Yes.\'94 He leaned over the table and kissed her. \'93You\'92re awfully beautiful when you cry.\'94 \'93I\'92m awfully sorry I cried,\'94 she said. \'93You don\'92t really mind if we talk about it do you?\'94 \'93Of course not.\'94 \'93You see that was one of the parts of it I\'92d looked forward to.\'94 Yes, I guess it was, he thought. Well why shouldn\'92t it be? And we\'92ll do it. Maybe I will get to like it. \'93What was it about writing?\'94 he said. \'93Besides how it seems it\'92s going to be wonderful and then it turns out dull?\'94 \'93Wasn\'92t it that way with you when you started?\'94 \'93No. When I started I\'92d feel as though I could do anything and while I was doing it I would feel like I was making the whole world and when I would read it I would think this is so good I couldn\'92t have written it. I must have read it somewhere. Probably in the Saturday Evening Post.\'94 \'93Weren\'92t you ever discouraged?\'94 \'91Not when I started. I thought I was writing the greatest stories ever written and that people just didn\'92t have sense enough to know it.\'94 \'93Were you really that conceited?\'94 \'93Worse probably. Only I didn\'92t think I was conceited. I was just confident.\'94 \'93If those were your first stories, the ones I read, you had a right to be confident.\'94 \'93They weren\'92t,\'94 he said. \'93All those first confident stories were lost. The ones you read were when I wasn\'92t confident at all.\'94 \'93How were they lost, Roger?\'94 \'93It\'92s an awful story. I\'92ll tell it to you sometime \'93Wouldn\'92t you tell it to me now?\'94 \'93I hate to because it\'92s happened to other people and to better writers than I am and that makes it sound as though it were made up. There\'92s no reason for it ever happening and yet it\'92s happened many times and it still hurts like a bastard. No it doesn\'92t really. It has a scar over it now. A good thick scar.\'94 \'93Please tell me about it. If it\'92s a scar and not a scab it won\'92t hurt to will it?\'94 \'93No, daughter. Well I was very methodical in those days and I kept original manuscripts in one cardboard folder and typed originals in another and carbons in another. I guess it wasn\'92t so cockeyed methodical. I don\'92t know how else you\'92d do it. Oh the hell with this story.\'94 \'93No tell me.\'94 \'93Well I was working at the Lausanne Conference and it was the holidays coming up and Andrew\'92s mother who was a lovely girl and very beautiful and kind\'97\'94 \'93I was never jealous of her,\'94 the girl said. \'93I was jealous of David\'92s and Tom\'92s mother.\'94 \'93You shouldn\'92t be jealous of either of them. They were both wonderful.\'94 \'93I was jealous of Dave\'92s and Tom\'92s mother,\'94 Helena said. \'93I\'92m not now.\'94 \'93That\'92s awfully white of you,\'94 Roger said. \'93Maybe we ought to send her a cable.\'94 \'93Go on with the story, please, and don\'92t be bad.\'94 \'93All right. The aforesaid Andy\'92s mother thought she would bring down my stuff so I could have it with me and be able to do some work while we had the holiday together. She was going to bring it to me as a surprise. She hadn\'92t written anything about it and when I met her at Lausanne I didn\'92t know anything about it. She was a day late and had wired about it. The only thing I knew was that she was crying when I met her and she cried and cried and when I would ask her what was the matter she told me it was too awful to tell me and then she would cry again. She cried as though her heart was broken. Do I have to tell this story?\'94 \'93Please tell me.\'94 \'93All that morning she would not tell me and I thought of all the worst possible things that could have happened and asked her if they had happened. But she just shook her head. The worst thing I could think of was that she had tromper-ed me or fallen in love with someone else and when I asked her that she said, \'91Oh how can you say that?\'92 and cried some more. I felt relieved then and then, finally, she told me. \'93She had packed all the manuscript folders in a suitcase and left the suitcase with her other bags in her first class compartment in the Paris-Lausanne-Milan Express in the Gare de Lyon while she went out on the quai to buy a London paper and a bottle of Evian water. You remember the Gare de Lyon and how they would have sort of push tables with papers and magazines and mineral water and small flasks of cognac and sandwiches with ham between sliced long pointed-end bread wrapped in paper and other push carts with pillows and blankets that you rented? Well when she got back into the compartment with her paper and her Evian water the suitcase was gone. \'93She did everything there was to be done. You know the French police. The first thing she had to do was show her carte d\'92identit\'e9 and try to prove she was not an international crook herself and that she did not suffer from hallucinations and that she was sure she actually had such a suitcase and were the papers of political importance and besides, madame, surely there exist copies. She had that all night and the next day when a detective came and searched the flat for the suitcase and found a shotgun of mine and demanded to know if I had a permis de chasse I think there was some doubt in the minds of the police whether she should be allowed to proceed to Lausanne and she said the detective had followed her to the train and appeared in the compartment just before the train pulled out and said, \'91You are quite sure madame that all your baggage is intact now? That you have not lost anything else? No other important papers?\'92 \'93So I said, \'91But it\'92s all right really. You can\'92t have brought the originals and the typed originals and the carbons.\'92 \'93\'91But I did,\'92 she said. \'91Roger, I know I did.\'92 It was true too. I found out it was true when I went up to Paris to see. I remember walking up the stairs and opening the door to the flat, unlocking it and pulling back on the brass handle of the sliding lock and the odor of Eau de Tavel in the kitchen and the dust that had sifted in through the windows on the table in the dining room and going to the cupboard where I kept the stuff in the dining room and it was all gone. I was sure it would be there; that some of the manila folders would be there because I could see them there so clearly in my mind. But there was nothing there at all, not even my paper clips in a cardboard box nor my pencils and erasers nor my pencil sharpener that was shaped like a fish, nor my envelopes with the return address typed in the upper left-hand corner, nor my international postage coupons that you enclosed for them to send the manuscripts back with and that were kept in a small Persian lacquered box that had a pornographic painting inside of it. They were all gone. They had all been packed in the suitcase. Even the red stick of wax was gone that I had used to seal letters and packages. I stood there and looked at the painting inside the Persian box and noticed the curious over-proportion of the parts represented that always characterizes pornography and I remember thinking how much I disliked pornographic pictures and painting and writing and how after this box had been given to me by a friend on his return from Persia I had only looked at the painted interior once to please the friend and that after that I had only used the box as a convenience to keep coupons and stamps in and had never seen the pictures. I felt almost as though I could not breathe when I saw that there really were no folders with originals, nor folders with typed copies, nor folders with carbons and then I locked the door of the cupboard and went into the next room, which was the bedroom, and lay down on the bed and put a pillow between my legs and my arms around another pillow and lay there very quietly. I had never put a pillow between my legs before and I had never lain with my arms around a pillow but now I needed them very badly. I knew everything I had ever written and everything that I had great confidence in was gone. I had rewritten them so many times and gotten them just how I wanted them and I knew I could not write them again because once I had them right I forgot them completely and each time I ever read them I wondered at them and at how I had ever done them. \'93So I lay there without moving with the pillows for friends and I was in despair. I had never had despair before, true despair, nor have I ever had it since. My forehead lay against the Persian shawl that covered the bed, which was only a mattress and springs set on the floor and the bed cover was dusty too and I smelt the dust and lay there with my despair and the pillows were my only comfort.\'94 \'93What were they that were gone,\'94 the girl asked. \'93Eleven stories, a novel, and poems.\'94 \'93Poor poor Roger.\'94 \'93No. I wasn\'92t so poor because there were more inside. Not them. But to come. But I was in bad shape. You see I hadn\'92t believed they could be gone. Not everything.\'94 \'93What did you do?\'94 \'93Nothing very practical. I lay there for a while.\'94 \'93Did you cry?\'94 \'93No. I was all dried up inside like the dust in the house. Weren\'92t you ever in despair?\'94 \'93Of course. In London. But I could cry.\'94 \'93I\'92m sorry, daughter. I got to thinking about this thing and I forgot. I\'92m awfully sorry.\'94 \'93What did you do?\'94 \'93Let\'92s see I got up and went down the stairs and spoke to the concierge and she asked me about madame. She was worried because the police had been to the flat and had asked her questions but she was still cordial. She asked me if we had found the valise that had been stolen and I said no and she said it was dirty luck and a great misfortune and was it true that all my works were in it. I said yes and she said but how was it there were no copies? I said the copies were there too. Then she said Mais \'e7a alors. Why were copies made to lose them with the originals? I said madame had packed them by mistake. It was a great mistake, she said. A fatal mistake. But monsieur can remember them surely. No, I said. But, she said, monsieur will have to remember them. Il faut le souvienne rappeler. Oui, I said, mais ce n\'92est pas possible. Je ne m\'92en souviens plus. Mais il faut faire un ef ort, she said. Je le ferais, I said. But it\'92s useless. Mais qu\'92est-ce que monsieur va faire? she asked. Monsieur has worked here for three years. I have seen monsieur work at the caf\'e9 on the corner. I\'92ve seen monsieur at work at the table in the dining room when I\'92ve brought things up. Je sais que monsieur travaille comme un sourd. Qu\'92es-ce que il faut faire maintenant? Il faut recommencer, I said. Then the concierge started to cry. I put my arm around her and she smelled of armpit sweat and dust and old black clothes and her hair smelled rancid and she cried with her head on my chest. Were there poems too? she asked. Yes, I said. What unhappiness, she said. But you can recall those surely. Je t\'e2cherai de la faire, I said. Do it, she said. Do it tonight. \'93I will, I told her. Oh monsieur, she said, madame is beautiful and amiable and tous le qui\'92il y a de gentil but what a grave error it was. Will you drink a glass of marc with me? Of course, I told her, and, sniffing, she left my chest to find the bottle and the two small glasses. To the new works, she said. To them, I said. Monsieur will be a member of the Acad\'e9mie Fran\'e7aise. No, I said. The Acad\'e9mie Americaine, she said. Would you prefer rum? I have some rum. No, I said. Marc is very good. Good, she said. Another glass. Now, she said, go out and get yourself drunk and, since Marcelle is not coming to do the flat, as soon as my husband comes in to hold down this dirty loge I will go upstairs and clean the place up for you to sleep tonight. Do you want me to buy anything for you? Do you want me to make breakfast? I asked her. Certainly, she said. Give me ten francs and I\'92ll bring you the change. I\'92d make you dinner but you ought to eat out tonight. Even though it is more expensive. Allez voir des amis et manger quelque part. If it wasn\'92t for my husband I\'92d come with you. \'93Come on and have a drink at the Caf\'e9 des Amateurs now, I said. We\'92ll have a hot grog. No I can\'92t leave this cage until my husband comes, she said. D\'e9bine-toi maintenant. Leave me the key. It will all be in order when you get back. \'93She was a fine woman and I felt better already because I knew there was only one thing to do; to start over. But I did not know if I could do it. Some of the stories had been about boxing, and some about baseball and others about horse racing. They were the things I had known best and had been closest to and several were about the first war. Writing them I had felt all the emotion I had to feel about those things and I had put it all in and all the knowledge of them that I could express and I had rewritten and rewritten until it was all in them and all gone out of me Because I had worked on newspapers since I was very young I could never remember anything once I had written it down; as each day you wiped your memory clear with writing as you might wipe a blackboard clear with a sponge or a wet rag; and I still had that evil habit and now it had caught up with me. \'93But the concierge, and the smell of the concierge, and her practicality and determination hit my despair as a nail might hit it if it were driven in cleanly and soundly and I thought I must do something about this; something practical; something that will be good for me even if it cannot help about the stories. Already I was half glad the novel was gone because I could see already, as you begin to see clearly over the water when a rainstorm lifts on the ocean as the wind carries it out to sea, that I could write a better novel. But I missed the stories as though they were a combination of my house, and my job, my only gun, my small savings and my wife; also my poems. But the despair was going and there was only missing now as after a great loss. Missing is very bad too.\'94 \'93I know about missing,\'94 the girl said. \'93Poor daughter,\'94 he said. \'93Missing is bad. But it doesn\'92t kill you. But despair would kill you in just a little time.\'94 \'93Really kill you?\'94 \'93I think so,\'94 he said. \'93Can we have another?\'94 she asked. \'93Will you tell me the rest? This is the sort of thing I always wondered about.\'94 \'93We can have another,\'94 Roger said. \'93And I\'92ll tell you the rest if it doesn\'92t bore you.\'94 \'93Roger, you mustn\'92t say that about boring me.\'94 \'93I bore the hell out of myself sometimes,\'94 he said. \'93So it seemed normal I might bore you.\'94 \'93Please make the drink and then tell me what happened.\'94 ABOUT THE AUTHOR Ernest Hemingway was born in Oak Park, Illinois, in 1899, and began his writing career for The Kansas City Star in 1917. During the First World War he volunteered as an ambulance driver on the Italian front but was invalided home, having been seriously wounded while serving with the Red Cross. In 1921 Hemingway settled in Paris, where he became part of the literary expatriate circle of Gertrude Stein, F. Scott Fitzgerald, Ezra Pound, and Ford Madox Ford. His first book, Three Stories and Ten Poems, was published in Paris in 1923 and was followed by the short story selection In Our Time, which marked his American debut in 1925. With the appearance of The Sun Also Rises in 1926, Hemingway became not only the voice of the \'93lost generation\'94 but the preeminent writer of his time. This was followed by Men Without Women in 1927, when Hemingway returned to the United States, and his novel of the Italian front, A Farewell to Arms (1929). In the 1930s, Hemingway settled in Key West, and later in Cuba, but he traveled widely\'97to Spain, Florida, Italy, and Africa\'97and wrote about his experiences in Death in the Afternoon (1932), his classic treatise on bullfighting, and Green Hills of Africa (1935), an account of big game hunting in Africa. Later he reported on the Spanish Civil War, which became the background for his brilliant war novel, For Whom the Bell Tolls (1940), hunted U-boats in the Caribbean, and covered the European front during the Second World War. Hemingway\'92s most popular work, The Old Man and the Sea, was awarded the Pulitzer Prize in 1953, and in 1954 Hemingway won the Nobel Prize in Literature \'93for his powerful, styleforming mastery of the art of narration.\'94 One of the most important influences on the development of the short story and novel in American fiction, Hemingway has seized the imagination of the American public like no other twentieth-century author. He died in Ketchum, Idaho, in 1961. His other works include The Torrents of Spring (1926), Winner Take Nothing (1933), To Have and Have Not (1937), The Fifth Column and the First Forty-nine Stories (1938), Across the River and into the Trees (1950), and posthumously, A Moveable Feast (1964), Islands in the Stream (1970), The Dangerous Summer (1985), and The Garden of Eden (1986). * The reader's indulgence is requested for this mention of an extinct phenomenon. The reference,like all references to fashions, dates the story but it is retained because of its mild historical interest and because its omission would spoil the rhythm.}